Kings II.
Chapter 11.
And it came to pass when the time o the year for kings going out to battle had come round, that David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged Rabbath: but David remained at Jerusalem. 
And it came to pass towards evening, that David arose off his couch, and walked on the roof of the king's house, and saw from the roof a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon. 
And David sent and enquired about the woman: and one said, Is not this Bersabee the daughter of Eliab, the wife of Urias the Chettite? 
And David sent messengers, and took her, and went in to her, and he lay with her: and she was purified from her uncleanness, and returned to her house. 
And the woman conceived; and she sent and told David, and said, I am with child. 
And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Urias the Chettite; and Joab sent Urias to David. 
And Urias arrived and went in to him, and David asked him how Joab was, and how the people were, and how the war went on. 
And David said to Urias, Go to your house, and wash your feet: and Urias departed from the house of the king, and a portion of meat from the king followed him. 
And Urias slept at the door of the king with the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house. 
And they brought David word, saying, Urias has not gone down to his house. And David said to Urias, Are you not come from a journey? why have you not gone down to your house? 
And Urias said to David, The ark, and Israel, and Juda dwell in tents; and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open fields; and shall I go into my house to eat and drink, and lie with my wife? how should I do this? as your soul lives, I will not do this thing. 
And David said to Urias, Remain here today also, and to-morrow I will let you go. So Urias remained in Jerusalem that day and the day following. 
And David called him, and he ate before him and drank, and he made him drunk: and he went out in the evening to lie upon his bed with the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house. 
And the morning came, and David wrote a letter to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Urias. 
And he wrote in the letter, saying, Station Urias in front of the severe part of the fight, and retreat from behind him, so shall he be wounded and die. 
And it came to pass while Joab was watching against the city, that he set Urias in a place where he knew that valiant men were. 
And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and some of the people of the servants of David fell, and Urias the Chettite died also. 
And Joab sent, and reported to David all the events of the war, so as to tell them to the king. 
And he charged the messenger, saying, When you have finished reporting all the events of the war to the king, 
then it shall come to pass if the anger of the king shall arise, and he shall say to you, Why did you⌃ draw near to the city to fight? knew you⌃ not that they would shoot from off the wall? 
Who struck Abimelech the son of Jerobaal son of Ner? did not a woman cast a piece of a millstone upon him from above the wall, and he died in Thamasi? why did you⌃ draw near to the wall? then you shall say, Your servant Urias the Chettite is also dead. 
And the messenger of Joab went to the king to Jerusalem, and he came and reported to David all that Joab told him, all the affairs of the war. And David was very angry with Joab, and said to the messenger, Why did you⌃ draw near to the wall to fight? knew you⌃ not that you⌃ would be wounded from off the wall? Who struck Abimelech the son of Jerobaal? did not a woman cast upon him a piece of millstone from the wall, and he died in Thamasi? why did you⌃ draw near to the wall? 
And the messenger said to David, The men prevailed against us, and they came out against us into the field, and we came upon them even to the door of the gate. 
And the archers shot at your servants from off the wall, and some of the king's servants died, and your servant Urias the Chettite is dead also. 
And David said to the messenger, Thus shall you say to Joab, Let not the matter be grievous in your eyes, for the sword devours one way at one time and another way at another: strengthen your array against the city, and destroy it, and strengthen him. 
And the wife of Urias heard that Urias her husband was dead, and she mourned for her husband. 
And the time of mourning expired, and David sent and took her into his house, and she became his wife, and bore him a son: but the thing which David did was evil in the eyes of the Lord. 
