Wisdom.
Chapter 8.
Wisdom reaches from one end to another mightily: and sweetly does she order all things. 
I loved her, and sought her out from my youth, I desired to make her my spouse, and I was a lover of her beauty. 
In that she is conversant with God, she magnifies her nobility: yes, the Lord of all things himself loved her. 
For she is privy to the mysteries of the knowledge of God, and a lover of his works. 
If riches be a possession to be desired in this life; what is richer than wisdom, that works all things? 
And if prudence work; who of all that are is a more cunning workman than she? 
And if a man love righteousness her labours are virtues: for she teaches temperance and prudence, justice and fortitude: which are such things, as men can have nothing more profitable in their life. 
If a man desire much experience, she knows things of old, and conjectures aright what is to come: she knows the subtilties of speeches, and can expound dark sentences: she foresees signs and wonders, and the events of seasons and times. 
Therefore I purposed to take her to me to live with me, knowing that she would be a counsellor of good things, and a comfort in cares and grief. 
For her sake I shall have estimation amongst the multitude, and honour with the elders, though I be young. 
I shall be found of a quick conceit in judgement, and shall be admired in the sight of great men. 
When I hold my tongue, they shall bide my leisure, and when I speak, they shall give good ear to me: if I talk much, they shall lay their hands upon their mouth. 
Moreover by the means of her I shall obtain immortality, and leave behind me an everlasting memorial to them that come after me. 
I shall set the people in order, and the nations shall be subject to me. 
Horrible tyrants shall be afraid, when they do but hear of me; I shall be found good amongst the multitude, and valiant in war. 
After I am come into mine house, I will repose myself with her: for her conversation has no bitterness; and to live with her has no sorrow, but mirth and joy. 
Now when I considered these things in myself, and pondered them in my heart, how that to be allied to wisdom is immortality; 
And great pleasure it is to have her friendship; and in the works of her hands are infinite riches; and in the exercise of conference with her, prudence; and in talking with her, a good report; I went about seeking how to take her to me. 
For I was a witty child, and had a good spirit. 
Yes rather, being good, I came into a body undefiled. 
Nevertheless, when I perceived that I could not otherwise obtain her, except God gave her me; and that was a point of wisdom also to know whose gift she was; I prayed to the Lord, and implored him, and with my whole heart I said, 
