Amos.
Chapter 4.
Hear you⌃ this word, you⌃ heifers of the land of Basan that are in the mountain of Samaria, that oppress the poor, and trample on the needy, which say to their masters, Give us that we may drink. 
The Lord swears by his holiness, that, behold, the days come upon you, when they shall take you with weapons, and fiery destroyers shall cast those with you into boiling cauldrons. 
And you⌃ shall be brought forth naked in the presence of each other; and you⌃ shall be cast forth on the mountain Romman, says the Lord. 
You⌃ went into Bethel, and sinned, and you⌃ multiplied sin at Galgala; and you⌃ brought your meat-offerings in the morning, and your tithes every third day. 
And they read the law without, and called for public professions: proclaim aloud that the children of Israel have loved these things, says the Lord. 
And I will give you dullness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places: yet you⌃ returned not to me, says the Lord. 
Also I withheld from you the rain three months before the harvest: and I will rain upon one city, and on another city I will not rain: one part shall be rained upon, and the part on which I shall not rain shall be dried up. 
And the inhabitants of two or three cities shall be gathered to one city to drink water, and they shall not be satisfied: yet you⌃ have not returned to me, says the Lord. 
I struck you with parching, and with blight: you⌃ multiplied your gardens, your vineyards, and your fig-grounds, and the cankerworm devoured your olive yards: yet not even thus did you⌃ return to me, says the Lord. 
I sent pestilence amongst you by the way of Egypt, and killed your young men with the sword, together with your horses that were taken captive; and in my wrath against you I set fire to your camps: yet not even thus did you⌃ return to me, says the Lord. 
I overthrew you, as God overthrew Sodoma and Gomorrha, and you⌃ became as a brand plucked out of the fire: yet not even thus did you⌃ return to me, says the Lord. 
Therefore thus will I do to you, O Israel: nay because I will do thus to you, prepare to call on your God, O Israel. 
For, behold, I am he that strengthens the thunder, and creates the wind, and proclaims to men his Christ, forming the morning and the darkness, and mounting on the high places of the earth, The Lord God Almighty is his name. 
