Joshua.
Chapter 15.
And the borders of the tribe of Juda according to their families were from the borders of Idumea from the wilderness of sin, as far as Cades southward. 
And their borders were from the south as far as a part of the salt sea from the high country that extends southward. 
And they proceed before the ascent of Acrabin, and go out round Sena, and go up from the south to Cades Barne; and go out to Asoron, and proceed up to Sarada, and go out by the way that is west of Cades. 
And they go out to Selmona, and issue at the valley of Egypt; and the termination of its boundaries shall be at the sea: these are their boundaries southward. 
And their boundaries eastward are all the salt sea as far as Jordan; and their borders from the north, and from the border of the sea, and from part of Jordan— 
the borders go up to Baethaglaam, and they go along from the north to Baetharaba, and the borders go on up to the stone of Baeon the son of Ruben. 
And the borders continue on to the fourth part of the valley of Achor, and go down to Galgal, which is before the approach of Adammin, which is southward in the valley, and terminate at the water of the fountain of the sun; and their going forth shall be the fountain of Rogel. 
And the borders go up to the valley of Ennom, behind Jebus southward; this is Jerusalem: and the borders terminate at the top of the mountain, which is before the valley of Ennom towards the sea, which is by the side of the land of Raphain northward. 
And the border going forth from the top of the mountain terminates at the fountain of the water of Naphtho, and terminates at mount Ephron; and the border will lead to Baal; this is the city of Jarim. 
And the border will go round from Baal to the sea, and will go on to the mount of Assar behind the city of Jarin northwards; this is Chaslon: and it will come down to the city of Sun, and will go on to the south. 
And the border terminates behind Accaron northward, and the borders will terminate at Socchoth, and the borders will go on to the south, and will terminate at Lebna, and the issue of the borders will be at the sea; and their borders shall be towards the sea, the great sea shall be the boundary. 
These are the borders of the children of Juda round about according to their families. 
And to Chaleb the son of Jephone he gave a portion in the midst of the children of Juda by the command of God; and Joshua gave him the city of Arboc the metropolis of Enac; this is Chebron. 
And Chaleb the son of Jephone destroyed thence the three sons of Enac, Susi, and Tholami, and Achima. 
And Chaleb went up thence to the inhabitants of Dabir; and the name of Dabir before was the city of Letters. 
And Chaleb said, Whosoever shall take and destroy the city of Letters, and master it, to him will I give my daughter Ascha to wife. 
And Gothoniel the son of Chenez the brother of Chaleb took it; and he gave him Ascha his daughter to wife. 
And it came to pass as she went out that she counselled him, saying, I will ask of my father a field; and she cried from off her ass; and Chaleb said to her, What is it? 
And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for you have set me in the land of Nageb; give me Botthanis: and he gave her Gonaethla the upper, and Gonaethla the lower. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Juda. 
And their cities were cities belonging to the tribe of the children of Juda on the borders of Edom by the wilderness, and Baeseleel, and Ara, and Asor, 
and Icam, and Regma, and Aruel, 
and Cades, and Asorionain, and Maenam, 
and Balmaenan, and their villages, 
and the cities of Aseron, this is Asor, 
and Sen, and Salmaa, and Molada, 
and Seri, and Baephalath, 
and Cholaseola, and Beersabee; and their villages, and their hamlets, 
Bala and Bacoc, and Asom, 
and Elboudad, and Baethel, and Herma, 
and Sekelac, and Macharim, and Sethennac, 
and Labos, and Sale, and Eromoth; twenty-nine cities, and their villages. 
In the plain country Astaol, and Raa, and Assa, 
and Ramen, and Tano, and Iluthoth, and Maeani, 
and Jermuth, and Odollam, and Membra, and Saocho, and Jazeca. 
And Sacarim and Gadera, and its villages; fourteen cities, and their villages; 
Senna, and Adasan, and Magadalgad, 
and Dalad, and Maspha, and Jachareel, 
and Basedoth, and Ideadalea; 
and Chabra, and Maches, and Maachos, 
and Geddor, and Bagadiel, and Noman, and Machedan: sixteen cities, and their villages; 
Lebna, and Ithac, and Anoch, 
and Jana, and Nasib, 
and Keilam, and Akiezi, and Kezib, and Bathesar, and Aelom: ten cities, and their villages; 
Accaron and her villages, and their hamlets: 
from Accaron, Gemna, and all the cities that are near Asedoth; and their villages. 
Asiedoth, and her villages, and her hamlets; Gaza, and its villages and its hamlets as far as the river of Egypt, and the great sea is the boundary. 
And in the hill country Samir, and Jether, and Socha, 
and Renna and the city of Letters, this is Dabir; 
and Anon, and Es, and Man, and Aesam, 
and Gosom, and Chalu, and Channa, and Gelom: eleven cities, and their villages; 
Aerem, and Remna, and Soma, 
and Jemain, and Baethachu, and Phacua, 
and Euma, and the city Arboc, this is Chebron, and Soraith: nine cities and their villages: 
Maor, and Chermel, and Ozib, and Itan, 
and Jariel, and Aricam, and Zacanaim, 
and Gabaa, and Thamnatha; nine cities, and their villages; 
Aelua, and Bethsur, and Geddon, 
and Magaroth, and Baethanam, and Thecum; six cities, and their villages; Theco, and Ephratha, this is Baethleem, and Phagor, and Aetan, and Culon, and Tatam, and Thobes, and Carem, and Galem, and Thether, and Manocho: eleven cities, and their villages, 
Cariathbaal, this is the city of Jarim, and Sotheba: two cities, and their villages: 
and Baddargeis, and Tharabaam, and Aenon; 
and Aeochioza, and Naphlazon, and the cities of Sadon, and Ancades; seven cities, and their villages. 
And the Jebusite lived in Jerusalem, and the children of Juda could not destroy them; and the Jebusites lived in Jerusalem to this day. 
