Esias.
Chapter 44.
But now hear, Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen. 
Thus says the Lord God that made you, and he that formed you from the womb; You shall yet be helped: fear not, my servant Jacob; and beloved Israel, whom I have chosen. 
For I will give water to the thirsty that walk in a dry land: I will put my Spirit upon your seed, and my blessings upon your children: 
and they shall spring up as grass between brooks, and as willows on the banks of running water. 
One shall say, I am God's; and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob; and another shall write with his hand, I am God's, and shall call himself by the name of Israel. 
Thus says God the King of Israel, and the God of hosts that delivered him; I am the first, and I am hereafter: beside me there is no God. 
Who is like me? let him stand, and call, and declare, and prepare for me from the time that I made man for ever; and let them tell you the things that are coming before they arrive. 
Hide not yourselves, nor go astray: have you⌃ not heard from the beginning, and have not I told you? you⌃ are witnesses if there is a God beside me. 
But they that framed false gods did not then listen; and they that graved images are all vain, performing their own desires, which shall not profit them, but they shall be ashamed 
that form a god, and all that grave worthless things: 
and all by whom they were made are withered: yes, let all the deaf be gathered from amongst men, and let them stand together; and let them be ashamed and confounded together: 
For the artificer sharpens the iron; he fashions the idol with an axe, and fixes it with an awl, and fashions it with the strength of his arm: and he will be hungry and weak, and will drink no water. 
The artificer having chosen a piece of wood, marks it out with a rule, and fits it with glue, and makes it as the form of a man, and as the beauty of a man, to set it up in the house. 
He cuts wood out of the forest, which the Lord planted, even a pine tree, and the rain made it grow, 
that it might be for men to burn: and having taken part of it he warms himself; yes, they burn part of it, and bake loaves thereon; and of the rest they make for themselves gods, and they worship them. 
Half thereof he burns in the fire, and with half of it he bakes loaves on the coals; and having roasted flesh on it he eats, and is satisfied, and having warmed himself he says, I am comfortable, for I have warmed myself, and have seen the fire. 
And the rest he makes a graven god, and worships, and prays, saying, Deliver me; for you are my God. 
They have no understanding to perceive; for they have been blinded so that they should not see with their eyes, nor perceive with their heart. 
And one has not considered in his mind, nor known in his understanding, that he has burnt up half of it in the fire, and baked loaves on the coals thereof and has roasted and eaten flesh, and of the rest of it he has made an abomination, and they worship it. 
Know you that their heart is ashes, and they err, and no one is able to deliver his soul: see, you⌃ will not say, There is a lie in my right hand. 
Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel; for you are my servant; I have formed you to be my servant: and do you, Israel, not forget me. 
For behold, I have blotted out as a cloud your transgressions, and your sin as darkness: turn to me, and I will redeem you. 
Rejoice, you⌃ heavens; for God has had mercy upon Israel: sound the trumpet, you⌃ foundations of the earth: you⌃ mountains, shout with joy, you⌃ hills, and all the trees therein: for God has redeemed Jacob, and Israel shall be glorified. 
Thus says the Lord that redeems you, and who formed you from the womb, I am the Lord that performs all things: I stretched out the heaven alone, and established the earth. 
Who else will frustrate the tokens of those that have divining spirits, and prophecies from the heart of man? turning the wise back, and making their counsel foolishness; 
and confirming the word of his servant, and verifying the counsel of his messengers: who says to Jerusalem, You shall be inhabited; and to the cities of Idumea, You⌃ shall be built, and her desert places shall spring forth. 
Who says to the deep, You shall be dried up, and I will dry up the rivers. 
Who bids Cyrus be wise, and he shall perform all my will: who says to Jerusalem, You shall be built, and I will lay the foundation of my holy house. 
