Joshua.
Chapter 17.
And the borders of the tribe of the children of Manasse, (for he was the firstborn of Joseph,) assigned to Machir the firstborn of Manasse the father of Galaad, for he was a warrior, were in the land of Galaad and of Basan. 
And there was land assigned to the other sons of Manasse according to their families; to the sons of Jezi, and to the sons of Kelez, and to the sons of Jeziel, and to the sons of Sychem, and to the sons of Symarim, and to the sons of Opher: these are the males according to their families. 
And Salpaad the sons of Opher had no sons but daughters: and these are the names of the daughters of Salpaad; Maala, and Nua, and Egla, and Melcha, and Thersa. 
And they stood before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua, and before the rulers, saying, God gave a charge by the hand of Moses, to give us an inheritance in the midst of our brethren: so there was given to them by the command of the Lord an inheritance amongst the brethren of their father. 
And their lot fell to them from Anassa, and to the plain of Labec of the land of Galaad, which is beyond Jordan. 
For the daughters of the sons of Manasse inherited a portion in the midst of their brethren, and the land of Galaad was assigned to the remainder of the sons of Manasse. 
And the borders of the sons of Manasse were Delanath, which is before the sons of Anath, and it proceeds to the borders even to Jamin and Jassib to the fountain of Thaphthoth. 
It shall belong to Manasse, and Thapheth on the borders of Manasse shall belong to the sons of Ephraim. 
And the borders shall go down to the valley of Carana southward by the valley of Jariel, (there is a turpentine tree belonging to Ephraim between that and the city of Manasse:) and the borders of Manasse are northward to the brook; and the sea shall be its termination. 
Southward the land belongs to Ephraim, and northward to Manasse; and the sea shall be their cost; and northward they shall border upon Aseb, and eastward upon Issachar. 
And Manasses shall have in the portion of Issachar and Aser Baethsan and their villages, and the inhabitants of Dor, and its villages, and the inhabitants of Mageddo, and its villages, and the third part of Mapheta, and its villages. 
And the sons of Manasse were not able to destroy these cities; and the Chananite began to dwell in that land. 
And it came to pass that when the children of Israel were strong, they made the Chananites subject, but they did not utterly destroy them. 
And the sons of Joseph answered Joshua, saying, Therefore have you caused us to inherit one inheritance, and one line? whereas I am a great people, and God has blessed me. 
And Joshua said to them, If you be a great people, go up to the forest, and clear the land for yourself, If mount Ephraim be too little for you. 
And they said, The mount of Ephraim does not please us, and the Chananite dwelling in it in Baethsan, and in its villages, and in the valley of Jezrael, has choice cavalry and iron. 
And Joshua said to the sons of Joseph, If you are a great people, and have great strength, you shall not have only one inheritance. 
For you shall have the wood, for there is a wood, and you shall clear it, and the land shall be your; even when you shall have utterly destroyed the Chananite, for he has chosen cavalry; yet you are stronger than he. 
