Jezekiel.
Chapter 9.
And he cried in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, The judgement of the city has drawn near; and each had the weapons of destruction in his hand. 
And, behold, six men came from the way of the high gate that looks towards the north, and each one's axe was in his hand; and there was one man in the midst of them clothed with a long robe down to the feet, and a sapphire girdle was on his loins: and they came in and stood near the brazen altar. 
And the glory of the God of Israel, that was upon them, went up from the cherubs to the porch of the house. And he called the man that was clothed with the long robe, who had the girdle on his loins; 
And said to him, Go through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark on the foreheads of the men that groan and that grieve for all the iniquities that are done in the midst of them. 
And he said to the first in my hearing, Go after him into the city, and strike: and let not your eyes spare, and have no mercy. 
Slay utterly old man and youth, and virgin, and infants, and women: but go you⌃ not near any on whom is the mark: begin at my sanctuary. So they began with the elder men who were within in the house. 
And he said to them, Defile the house, and go out and fill the ways with dead bodies, and strike. 
And it came to pass as they were striking, that I fell upon my face, and cried out, and said, Alas, O Lord! will you destroy the remnant of Israel, in pouring out your wrath upon Jerusalem? 
Then said he to me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Juda is become very exceedingly great: for the land is filled with many nations, and the city is filled with iniquity and uncleanness: because they have said, The Lord has forsaken the earth, The Lord looks not upon it. 
Therefore mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have any mercy: I have recompensed their ways upon their heads. 
And, behold, the man clothed with the long robe, and girded with the girdle about his loins, answered and said, I have done as you did command me. 
