Proverbs.
Chapter 8.
You shall proclaim wisdom, that understanding may be obedient to you. 
For she is on lofty eminences, and stands in the midst of the ways. 
For she sits by the gates of princes, and sings in the entrances, saying, 
You, O men, I exhort; and utter my voice to the sons of men. 
O you⌃ simple, understand subtlety, and you⌃ that are untaught, imbibe knowledge. 
Listen to me; for I will speak solemn truths; and will produce right sayings from my lips. 
For my throat shall meditate truth; and false lips are an abomination before me. 
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing in them wrong or perverse. 
They are all evident to those that understand, and right to those that find knowledge. 
Receive instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than tried gold. 
For wisdom is better than precious stones; and no valuable substance is of equal worth with it. 
I wisdom have lived with counsel and knowledge, and I have called upon understanding. 
The fear of the Lord hates unrighteousness, and insolence, and pride, and the ways of wicked men; and I hate the perverse ways of bad men. 
Counsel and safety are mine; prudence is mine, and strength is mine. 
By me kings reign, and princes decree justice. 
By me nobles become great, and monarchs by me rule over the earth. 
I love those that love me; and they that seek me shall find me. 
Wealth and glory belong to me; yes, abundant possessions and righteousness. 
It is better to have my fruit than to have gold and precious stones; and my produce is better than choice silver. 
I walk in ways of righteousness, and am conversant with the paths of judgement; 
that I may divide substance to them that love me, and may fill their treasures with good things. If I declare to you the things that daily happen, I will remember also to recount the things of old. 
The Lord made me the beginning of his ways for his works. 
He established me before time was in the beginning, before he made the earth: 
even before he made the depths; before the fountains of water came forth: 
before the mountains were settled, and before all hills, he begets me. 
The Lord made countries and uninhabited tracks, and the highest inhabited parts of the world. 
When he prepared the heaven, I was present with him; and when he prepared his throne upon the winds: 
and when he strengthened the clouds above; and when he secured the fountains of the earth: 
decree. and when he strengthened the foundations of the earth: 
I was by him, suiting myself to him, I was that wherein he took delight; and daily I rejoiced in his presence continually. 
For he rejoiced when he had completed the world, and rejoiced amongst the children of men. 
Now then, my son, hear me: blessed is the man who shall listen to me, and the mortal who shall keep my ways; 
Hear wisdom and be wise, and be not strangers to it.  
watching daily at my doors, waiting at the posts of my entrances. 
For my outgoings are the outgoings of life, and in them is prepared favour from the Lord. 
But they that sin against me act wickedly against their own souls: and they that hate me love death. 
