Jezekiel.
Chapter 5.
And you, son of man, take you a sword sharper than a barber's razor; you shall procure it for yourself, and shall bring it upon your head, and upon your beard: and you shall take a pair of scales, and shall separate the hair. 
A fourth part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, at the fulfilment of the days of the siege: and you shall take a fourth part, and burn it up in the midst of it: and a fourth part you shall cut with a sword round about it: and a fourth part you shall scatter to the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them. 
And you shall take thence a few in number, and shall wrap them in the fold of your garment. 
And you shall take of these again, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them up with fire: from thence shall come forth fire; and you shall say to the whole house of Israel, 
Thus says the Lord; This is Jerusalem: I have set her and the countries round about her in the midst of the nations. 
And you shall declare mine ordinances to the lawless one from out of the nations; and my statutes to the sinful one of the countries round about her: because they have rejected mine ordinances, and have not walked in my statutes. 
Therefore thus says the Lord, Because your occasion for sin has been taken from the nations round about you, and you⌃ have not walked in my statutes, nor kept mine ordinances, nay, you⌃ have not even done according to the ordinances of the nations round about you; therefore thus says the Lord; 
Behold, I am against you, and I will execute judgement in the midst of you in the sight of the nations. 
And I will do in you things which I have not done, and the like of which I will not do again, for all your abominations. 
Therefore the fathers shall eat their children in the midst of you, and children shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgements in you, and I will scatter all that are left of you to every wind. 
Therefore, as I live, says the Lord; surely, because you have defiled my holy things with all your abominations, I also will reject you; mine eye shall not spare, and I will have no mercy. 
A fourth part of you shall be cut off by pestilence, and a fourth part of you shall be consumed in the midst of you with famine: and as for another fourth part of you, I will scatter them to every wind; and a fourth part of you shall fall by sword round about you, and I will draw out a sword after them. 
And my wrath and mine anger shall be accomplished upon them: and you shall know that I the Lord have spoken in my jealousy, when I have accomplished mine anger upon them. 
And I will make you desolate, and your daughters round about you, in the sight of every one that passes through. 
And you shall be mourned over and miserable amongst the nations round about you, when I have executed judgements in you in the vengeance of my wrath. I the Lord have spoken. 
And when I have sent against them shafts of famine, then they shall be consumed, and I will break the strength of your bread. 
So I will send forth against you famine and evil beasts, and I will take vengeance upon you; and pestilence and blood shall pass through upon you; and I will bring a sword upon you round about. I the Lord have spoken. 
