Joshua.
Chapter 7.
But the children of Israel committed a great trespass, and purloined part of the accursed thing; and Achar the son of Charmi, the son of Zambri, the son of Zara, of the tribe of Juda, took of the accursed thing; and the Lord was very angry with the children of Israel. 
And Joshua sent men to Gai, which is by Baethel, saying, Spy out Gai: and the men went up and spied Gai. 
And they returned to Joshua, and said to him, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and take the city by siege: carry not up there the whole people, for the enemy are few. 
And there went up about three thousand men, and they fled from before the men of Gai. 
And the men of Gai killed of them to the number of thirty-six men, and they pursued them from the gate, and destroyed them from the steep hill; and the heart of the people was alarmed and became as water. 
And Joshua tore his garments; and Joshua fell on the earth on his face before the Lord until evening, he and the elders of Israel; and they cast dust on their heads. 
And Joshua said, I pray, Lord, therefore has your servant brought this people over Jordan to deliver them to the Amorite to destroy us? would we had remained and settled ourselves beyond Jordan. 
And what shall I say since Israel has turned his back before his enemy? 
And when the Chananite and all the inhabitants of the land hear it, they shall compass us round and destroy us from off the land: and what will you do for your great name? 
And the Lord said to Joshua, Rise up; why have you fallen upon your face? 
The people has sinned, and transgressed the covenant which I made with them; they have stolen from the cursed thing, and put it into their store. 
And the children of Israel will not be able to stand before their enemies; they will turn their back before their enemies, for they have become an accursed thing: I will not any longer be with you, unless you⌃ remove the cursed thing from yourselves. 
Rise, sanctify the people and tell them to sanctify themselves for the morrow: thus says the Lord God of Israel, The accursed thing is amongst you; you⌃ shall not be able to stand before your enemies, until you⌃ shall have removed the cursed thing from amongst you. 
And you⌃ shall all be gathered together by your tribes in the morning, and it shall come to pass that the tribe which the Lord shall show, you⌃ shall bring by families; and the family which the Lord shall show, you⌃ shall bring by households; and the household which the Lord shall show, you⌃ shall bring man by man. 
And the man who shall be pointed out, shall be burnt with fire, and all that he has; because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and has wrought wickedness in Israel. 
And Joshua rose up early, and brought the people by their tribes; and the tribe of Juda was pointed out. 
And it was brought by their families, and family of the Zaraites was pointed out. 
And it was brought man by man, and Achar the son of Zambri the son of Zara was pointed out. 
And Joshua said to Achar, Give glory this day to the Lord God of Israel, and make confession; and tell me what you have done, and hide it not from me. 
And Achar answered Joshua, and said, Indeed I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel: thus and thus have I done: 
I saw in the spoil an embroidered mantle, and two hundred didrachmas of silver, and one golden wedge of fifty didrachmas, and I desired them and took them; and, behold, they are hid in my tent, and the silver is hid under them. 
And Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent into the camp; and these things were hidden in his tent, and the silver under them. 
And they brought them out of the tent, and brought them to Joshua and the elders of Israel, and they laid them before the Lord. 
And Joshua took Achar the son of Zara, and brought him to the valley of Achor, and his sons, and his daughters, and his calves, and his asses, and all his sheep, and his tent, and all his property, and all the people were with him; and he brought them to Emec Achor. 
And Joshua said to Achar, Why have you destroyed us? the Lord destroy you as at this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones. 
And they set up over him a great heap of stones; and the Lord ceased from his fierce anger. Therefore he called the place Emecachor until this day. 
