Psalms.
Chapter 70.
(71) By David, a Psalm sung by the sons of Jonadab, and the first that were taken captive. O Lord, I have hoped in you: let me never be put to shame. 
In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me: incline your ear to me, and save me. 
Be to me a protecting God, and a strong hold to save me: for you are my fortress and my refuge. 
Deliver me, O my God, from the hand of the sinner, from the hand of the transgressor and unjust man. 
For you are my support, O Lord; O Lord, you are my hope from my youth. 
On you have I been stayed from the womb: from the belly of my mother you are my protector: of you is my praise continually. 
I am become as it were a wonder to many: but you are my strong helper. 
Let my mouth be filled with praise, that I may hymn your glory, and your majesty all the day. 
Cast me not off at the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength fails. 
For mine enemies have spoken against me; and they that lay wait for my soul have taken counsel together, 
saying, God has forsaken him: persecute you⌃ and take him; for there is none to deliver him. 
O God, go not far from me, O my God, draw near to my help. 
Let those that plot against my soul be ashamed and utterly fail: let those that seek my hurt be clothed with shame and dishonour. 
But I will hope continually, and will praise you more and more. 
My mouth shall declare your righteousness openly, and your salvation all the day; for I am not acquainted with the affairs of men. 
I will go on in the might of the Lord: O Lord, I will make mention of your righteousness only. 
O God, you have taught me from my youth, and until now will I declare your wonders; 
even until I am old and advanced in years. O God, forsake me not; until I shall have declared your arm to all the generation that is to come: 
even your power and your righteousness, O God, up to the highest heavens, even the mighty works which you have done: O God, who is like to you? 
What afflictions many and sore have you showed me! yet you did turn and quicken me, and brought me again from the depths of the earth. 
You did multiply your righteousness, and did turn and comfort me, and brought me again out of the depths of the earth. 
I will also therefore give thanks to you, O God, because of your truth, on an instrument of psalmody: I will sing psalms to you on the harp, O Holy One of Israel. 
My lips shall rejoice when I sing to you; and my soul, which you have redeemed. 
Moreover also my tongue shall dwell all the day upon your righteousness; when they shall be ashamed and confounded that seek my hurt. 
