Esias.
Chapter 32.
For, behold, a righteous king shall reign, and princes shall govern with judgement. 
And a man shall hide his words, and be hidden, as from rushing water, and shall appear in Sion as a rushing river, glorious in a thirsty land. 
And they shall no more trust in men, but they shall incline their ears to hear. 
And the heart of the weak ones shall attend to hear, and the stammering tongues shall soon learn to speak peace. 
And they shall no more at all tell a fool to rule, and your servants shall no more at all say, Be silent. 
For the fool shall speak foolish words, and his heart shall meditate vanities, and to perform lawless deeds and to speak error against the Lord, to scatter hungry souls, and he will cause the thirsty souls to be empty. 
For the counsel of the wicked will devise iniquity, to destroy the poor with unjust words, and ruin the cause of the poor in judgement. 
But the godly have devised wise measures, and this counsel shall stand. 
Rise up, you⌃ rich women, and hear my voice; you⌃ confident daughters, listen to my words. 
Remember for a full year in pain, yet with hope: the vintage has been cut off; it has ceased, it shall by no means come again. 
Be amazed, be pained, you⌃ confident ones: strip you, bare yourselves, gird your loins; 
and beat your breasts, because of the pleasant field, and the fruit of the vine. 
As for the land of my people, the thorn and grass shall come upon it, and joy shall be removed from every house. 
As for the rich city, the houses are deserted; they shall abandon the wealth of the city, and the pleasant houses: and the villages shall be caves for ever, the joy of wild asses, shepherds' pastures; 
until the Spirit shall come upon you from on high, and Chermel shall be desert, and Chermel shall be counted for a forest. 
Then judgement shall abide in the wilderness, and righteousness shall dwell in Carmel. 
And the works of righteousness shall be peace; and righteousness shall ensure rest, and the righteous shall be confident for ever. 
And his people shall inhabit a city of peace, and dwell in it in confidence, and they shall rest with wealth. 
And if the hail should come down, it shall not come upon you; and they that dwell in the forests shall be in confidence, as those in the plain country. 
Blessed are they that sow by every water, where the ox and ass tread. 
