Genesis.
Chapter 36.
And these are the generations of Esau; this is Edom. 
And Esau took to himself wives of the daughters of the Chananites; Ada, the daughter of Aelom the Chettite; and Olibema, daughter of Ana the son of Sebegon, the Evite; 
and Basemath, daughter of Ismael, sister of Nabaioth. 
And Ada bore to him Eliphas; and Basemath bore Raguel. 
And Olibema bore Jeus, and Jeglom, and Core; these are the sons of Esau, which were born to him in the land of Chanaan. 
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and all his possessions, and all his cattle, and all that he had got, and all things whatever he had acquired in the land of Chanaan; and Esau went forth from the land of Chanaan, from the face of his brother Jacob. 
For their substance was too great for them to dwell together; and the land of their sojourning could not bear them, because of the abundance of their possessions. 
And Esau lived in mount Seir; Esau, he is Edom. 
And these are the generations of Esau, the father of Edom in the mount Seir. 
And these are the names of the sons of Esau. Eliphas, the son of Ada, the wife of Esau; and Raguel, the son of Basemath, wife of Esau. 
And the sons of Eliphas were Thaeman, Omar, Sophar, Gothom, and Kenez. 
And Thamna was a concubine of Eliphaz, the son of Esau; and she bore Amalec to Eliphas. These are the sons of Ada, the wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Raguel; Nachoth, Zare, Some, and Moze. These were the sons of Basemath, wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Olibema, the daughter of Ana, the son of Sebegon, the wife of Esau; and she bore to Esau, Jeus, and Jeglom, and Core. 
These are the chiefs of the son of Esau, even the sons of Eliphas, the firstborn of Esau; chief Thaeman, chief Omar, chief Sophar, chief Kenez, 
chief Core, chief Gothom, chief Amalec. These are the chiefs of Eliphas, in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Ada. 
And these are the sons of Raguel, the son of Esau; chief Nachoth, chief Zare, chief Some, chief Moze. These are the chiefs of Raguel, in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Olibema, wife of Esau; chief Jeus, chief Jeglom, chief Core. These are the chiefs of Olibema, daughter of Ana, wife of Esau. 
These are the sons of Esau, and these are the chiefs; these are the sons of Edom. 
And these are the sons of Seir, the Chorrhite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, Sobal, Sebegon, Ana, 
and Deson, and Asar, and Rison. These are the chiefs of the Chorrhite, the son of Seir, in the land of Edom. 
And the sons of Lotan were Chorrhi and Haeman; and the sister of Lotan, Thamna. 
And these are the sons of Sobal; Golam, and Manachath, and Gaebel, and Sophar, and Omar. 
And these are the sons of Sebegon; Aie, and Ana; this is the Ana who found Jamin in the wilderness, when he tended the beasts of his father Sebegon. 
And these are the sons of Ana; Deson—and Olibema was daughter of Ana. 
And these are the sons of Deson; Amada, and Asban, and Ithran, and Charrhan. 
And these are the sons of Asar; Balaam, and Zucam, and Jucam. 
And these are the sons of Rison; Hos, and Aran. 
And these are the chiefs of Chorri; chief Lotan, chief Sobal, chief Sebegon, chief Ana, 
chief Deson, chief Asar, chief Rison. These are the chiefs of Chorri, in their principalities in the land of Edom. 
these are the kings which reigned in Edom, before a king reigned in Israel. 
And Balac, son of Beor, reigned in Edom; and the name of his city was Dennaba. 
And Balac died; and Jobab, son of Zara, from Bosorrha reigned in his stead. 
And Jobab died; and Asom, from the land of the Thaemanites, reigned in his stead. 
And Asom died; and Adad son of Barad, who cut off Madiam in the plain of Moab, ruled in his stead; and the name of his city was Getthaim. 
And Adad died; and Samada of Massecca reigned in his stead. 
Samada died; and Saul of Rhooboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And Saul died; and Ballenon the son of Achobor reigned in his stead. 
And Ballenon the son of Achobor died; and Arad the son of Barad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Phogor; and the name of his wife was Metebeel, daughter of Matraith, son of Maizoob. 
These are the names of the chiefs of Esau, in their tribes, according to their place, in their countries, and in their nations; chief Thamna, chief Gola, chief Jether, 
chief Olibema, chief Helas, chief Phinon, 
chief Kenez, chief Thaeman, chief Mazar, 
chief Magediel, chief Zaphoin. These are the chiefs of Edom in their dwelling-places in the land of their possession; this is Esau, the father of Edom. 
And Jacob lived in the land where his father sojourned, in the land of Chanaan. 
