Esias.
Chapter 27.
In that day God shall bring his holy and great and strong sword upon the dragon, even the serpent that flees, upon the dragon, the crooked serpent: he shall destroy the dragon. 
In that day there shall be a fair vineyard, and a desire to commence a song concerning it. 
I am a strong city, a city in a siege: in vain shall I water it; for it shall be taken by night, and by day the wall shall fall. 
There is no woman that has not taken hold of it; who will set me to watch stubble in the field? because of this enemy I have set her aside; therefore on this account the Lord has done all that he appointed. 
I am burnt up; they that dwell in her shall cry, Let us make peace with him, let us make peace, 
they that are coming are the children of Jacob. Israel shall bud and blossom, and the world shall be filled with his fruit. 
Shall he himself be thus struck, even as he struck? and as he killed, shall he be thus slain? 
Fighting and reproaching he will dismiss them; did you not meditate with a harsh spirit, to kill them with a wrathful spirit? 
Therefore shall the iniquity of Jacob be taken away; and this is his blessing, when I shall have taken away his sin; when they shall have broken to pieces all the stones of the altars as fine dust, and their trees shall not remain, and their idols shall be cut off, as a thicket afar off. 
The flock that lived there shall be left, as a deserted flock; and the ground shall be for a long time for pasture, and there shall flocks lie down to rest. 
And after a time there shall be in it no green thing because of the grass being parched. Come hither, you⌃ women that come from a sight; for it is a people of no understanding; therefore he that made them shall have no pity upon them, and he that formed them shall have no mercy upon them. 
And it shall come to pass in that day that God shall fence men off from the channel of the river as far as Rhinocorura; but do you⌃ gather one by one the children of Israel. 
And it shall come to pass in that day that they shall blow the great trumpet, and the lost ones in the land of the Assyrians shall come, and the lost ones in Egypt, and shall worship the Lord on the holy mountain in Jerusalem. 
