Numbers.
Chapter 28.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Charge the children of Israel, and you shall speak to them, saying, You⌃ shall observe to offer to me in my feasts my gifts, my presents, my burnt offerings for a sweet smelling savour. 
And you shall say to them, These are the burnt offerings, all that you⌃ shall bring to the Lord; two lambs of a year old without blemish daily, for a whole burnt offering perpetually. 
You shall offer one lamb in the morning, and you shall offer the second lamb towards evening. 
And you shall offer the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, with the fourth part of a hin. 
It is a perpetual whole burnt offering, a sacrifice offered in the mount of Sina for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord. 
And its drink-offering, the fourth part of a hin to each lamb; in the holy place shall you pour strong drink as a drink-offering to the Lord. 
And the second lamb you shall offer towards evening; you shall offer it according to its meat-offering and according to its drink-offering for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And on the sabbath-day you⌃ shall offer two lambs of a year old without blemish, and two tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering, and a drink-offering. 
It is a whole burnt offering of the sabbaths on the sabbath days, besides the continued whole burnt offering, and its drink offering. 
And at the new moons you⌃ shall bring a whole burnt offering to the Lord, two calves of the herd, and one ram, seven lambs of a year old without blemish. 
Three tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil for one calf, and two tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil for one ram. 
A tenth deal of fine flour mingled with oil for each lamb, as a meat-offering, a sweet smelling savour, a burnt offering to the Lord. 
Their drink-offering shall be the half of a hin for one calf; and the third of a hin for one ram; and the fourth part of a hin of wine for one lamb: this is the whole burnt offering monthly throughout the months of the year. 
And he shall offer one kid of the goats for a sin-offering to the Lord; it shall be offered beside the continual whole burnt offering and its drink-offering. 
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is the passover to the Lord. 
And on the fifteenth day of this month is a feast; seven days you⌃ shall eat unleavened bread. 
And the first day shall be to you a holy convocation; you⌃ shall do no servile work. 
And you⌃ shall bring whole burnt offerings, a sacrifice to the Lord, two calves of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old; they shall be to you without blemish. 
And their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram. 
You shall offer a tenth for each lamb, for the seven lambs. 
And you shall offer one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you. 
Beside the perpetual whole burnt offering in the morning, which is a whole burnt sacrifice for a continuance, 
these shall you⌃ thus offer daily for seven days, a gift, a sacrifice for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord; beside the continual whole burnt offering, you shall offer its drink-offering. 
And the seventh day shall be to you a holy convocation; you⌃ shall do no servile work in it. 
And on the day of the new corn, when you⌃ shall offer a new sacrifice at the festival of weeks to the Lord, there shall be to you a holy convocation; you⌃ shall do no servile work, 
and you⌃ shall bring whole burnt offerings for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord, two calves of the herd, one ram, seven lambs without blemish. 
Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; there shall be three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram. 
A tenth for each lamb separately, for the seven lambs; and a kid of the goats, 
for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you; beside the perpetual whole burnt offering: and 
you⌃ shall offer to me their meat-offering. They shall be to you unblemished, and you⌃ shall offer their drink-offerings. 
