Exodus.
Chapter 26.
And you shall make the tabernacle, ten curtains of fine linen spun, and blue and purple, and scarlet spun with cherubs; you shall make them with work of a weaver. 
The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and one curtain shall be the breadth of four cubits: there shall be the same measure to all the curtains. 
And the five curtains shall be joined one to another, and the other five curtains shall be closely connected the one with the other. 
And you shall make for them loops of blue on the edge of one curtain, on one side for the coupling, and so shall you make on the edge of the outer curtain for the second coupling. 
Fifty loops shall you make for one curtain, and fifty loops shall you make on the part of the curtain answering to the coupling of the second, opposite each other, corresponding to each other at each point. 
And you shall make fifty golden rings; and you shall join the curtains to each other with the rings, and it shall be one tabernacle. 
And you shall make for a covering of the tabernacle skins with the hair on, you shall make them eleven skins. 
The length of one skin thirty cubits, and the breadth of one skin four cubits: there shall be the same measure to the eleven skins. 
And you shall join the five skins together, and the six skins together; and you shall double the sixth skin in front of the tabernacle. 
And you shall make fifty loops on the border of one skin, which is in the midst for the joinings; and you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the second skin that joins it. 
And you shall make fifty brazen rings; and you shall join the rings by the loops, and you shall join the skins, and they shall be one. 
And you shall fix at the end that which is over in the skins of the tabernacle; the half of the skin that is left shall you fold over, according to the overplus of the skins of the tabernacle; you shall fold it over behind the tabernacle. 
A cubit on this side, and a cubit on that side of that which remains of the skins, of the length of the skins of the tabernacle: it shall be folding over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and that side, that it may cover it. 
And you shall make for a covering of the tabernacle rams' skins dyed red, and blue skins as coverings above. 
And you shall make the posts of the tabernacle of incorruptible wood. 
Of ten cubits shall you make one post, and the breadth of one post of a cubit and a half. 
Two joints shall you make in one post, answering the one to the other: so shall you do to all the posts of the tabernacle. 
And you shall make posts to the tabernacle, twenty posts on the north side. 
And you shall make to the twenty posts forty silver sockets; two sockets to one post on both its sides, and two sockets to the other post on both its sides. 
And for the next side, towards the south, twenty posts, 
and their forty silver sockets: two sockets to one post on both its sides, and two sockets to the other post on both its sides. 
And on the back of the tabernacle at the part which is towards the west you shall make six posts. 
And you shall make two posts on the corners of the tabernacle behind. 
And it shall be equal below, they shall be equal towards the same part from the heads to one joining; so shall you make to both the two corners, let them be equal. 
And there shall be eight posts, and their sixteen silver sockets; two sockets to one post on both its sides, and two sockets to the other post. 
And you shall make bars of incorruptible wood; five to one post on one side of the tabernacle, 
and five bars to one post on the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars to the hinder posts, on the side of the tabernacle towards the sea. 
And let the bar in the middle between the posts go through from the one side to the other side. 
And you shall gild the posts with gold; and you shall make golden rings, into which you shall introduce the bars, and you shall gild the bars with gold. 
And you shall set up the tabernacle according to the pattern showed you in the mount. 
And you shall make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet woven, and fine linen spun: you shall make it cherubs in woven work. 
And you shall set it upon four posts of incorruptible wood overlaid with gold; and their tops shall be gold, and their four sockets shall be of silver. 
And you shall put the veil on the posts, and you shall carry in there within the veil the ark of the testimony; and the veil shall make a separation for you between the holy and the holy of holies. 
And you shall screen with the veil the ark of the testimony in the holy of holies. 
And you shall set the table outside the veil, and the candlestick opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle; and you shall put the table on the north side of the tabernacle. 
And you shall make a screen for the door of the tabernacle of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet and fine linen spun, the work of the embroiderer. 
And you shall make for the veil five posts, and you shall gild them with gold; and their chapiters shall be gold; and you shall cast for them five brazen sockets. 
