Psalms.
Chapter 34.
(35) A Psalm of David. Judge you, O Lord, them that injure me, fight against them that fight against me. 
Take hold of shield and buckler, and arise for my help. 
Bring forth a sword, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say to my soul, I am your salvation. 
Let them that seek my soul be ashamed and confounded: let them that devise evils against me be turned back and put to shame. 
Let them be as dust before the wind, and an angel of the Lord afflicting them. 
Let their way be dark and slippery, and an angel of the Lord persecuting them. 
For without cause they have hid for me their destructive snare: without a cause they have reproached my soul. 
Let a snare which they know not come upon them; and the gin which they hid take them; and let them fall into the very same snare. 
But my soul shall exult in the Lord: it shall delight in his salvation. 
All my bones shall say, O Lord, who is like to you? delivering the poor out of the hand of them that are stronger than he, yes, the poor and needy one from them that spoil him. 
Unjust witnesses arose, and asked me of things I new not. 
They rewarded me evil for good, and bereavement to my soul. 
But I, when they troubled me, put on sackcloth, and humbled my soul with fasting: and my prayer shall return to my own bosom. 
I behaved agreeably towards them as if it had been our neighbour or brother: I humbled myself as one mourning and sad of countenance. 
Yet they rejoiced against me, and plagues were plentifully brought against me, and I knew it not: they were scattered, but repented not. 
They tempted me, they sneered at me most contemptuously, they gnashed their teeth upon me. 
O Lord, when will you look upon me? Deliver my soul from their mischief, mine only-begotten one from the lions. 
I will give thanks to you even in a great congregation: in an abundant people I will praise you. 
Let not them that are mine enemies without a cause rejoice against me; who hate me for nothing, and wink with their eyes. 
For to me they spoke peaceably, but imagined deceits in their anger. 
And they opened wide their mouth upon me; they said Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it. 
You have seen it, O Lord: keep not silence: O Lord, withdraw not yourself from me. 
Awake, O Lord, and attend to my judgement, even to my cause, my God and my Lord. 
Judge me, O Lord, according to your righteousness, O Lord my God; and let them not rejoice against me. 
Let them not say in their hearts, Aha, aha, it is pleasing to our soul: neither let them say, We have devoured him. 
Let them be confounded and ashamed together that rejoice at my afflictions: let them be clothed with shame and confusion that speak great swelling words against me. 
Let them that rejoice in my righteousness exult and be glad: and let them say continually, The Lord be magnified, who desire the peace of his servant. 
And my tongue shall meditate on your righteousness, and on your praise all the day. 
