Leviticus.
Chapter 26.
I am the Lord your God: you⌃ shall not make to yourselves gods made with hands, or graven; neither shall you⌃ rear up a pillar for yourselves, neither shall you⌃ set up a stone for an object in your land to worship it: I am the Lord your God. 
You⌃ shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuaries: I am the Lord. 
If you⌃ will walk in my ordinances, and keep my commandments, and do them, 
then will I give you the rain in its season, and the land shall produce its fruits, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. 
And your threshing time shall overtake the vintage, and your vintage shall overtake your seed time; and you⌃ shall eat your bread to the full; and you⌃ shall dwell safely upon your land, and war shall not go through your land. 
And I will give peace in your land, and you⌃ shall sleep, and none shall make you afraid; and I will destroy the evil beasts out of your land, 
and you⌃ shall pursue your enemies, and they shall fall before you with slaughter. 
And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase tens of thousands; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. 
And I will look upon you, and increase you, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you. 
And you⌃ shall eat that which is old and very old, and bring forth the old to make way for the new. 
And I will set my tabernacle amongst you, and my soul shall not abhor you; 
and I will walk amongst you, and be your God, and you⌃ shall be my people. 
I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, where you⌃ were slaves; and I broke the band of your yoke, and brought you forth openly. 
But if you⌃ will not listen to me, nor obey these my ordinances, 
but disobey them, and your soul should loathe my judgements, so that you⌃ should not keep all my commands, so as to break my covenant, 
then will I do thus to you: I will even bring upon you perplexity and the itch, and the fever that causes your eyes to waste away, and disease that consumes your life; and you⌃ shall sow your seeds in vain, and your enemies shall eat them. 
And I will set my face against you, and you⌃ shall fall before your enemies, and they that hate you shall pursue you; and you⌃ shall flee, no one pursuing you. 
And if you⌃ still refuse to listen to me, then will I chasten you yet more even seven times for your sins. 
And I will break down the haughtiness of your pride; and I will make your heaven iron, and your earth as it were brass. 
And your strength shall be in vain; and your land shall not yield its seed, and the tree of your field shall not yield its fruit. 
And if after this you⌃ should walk perversely, and not be willing to obey me, I will further bring upon you seven plagues according to your sins. 
And I will send upon you the wild beasts of the land, and they shall devour you, and shall consume your cattle: and I will make you few in number, and your ways shall be desolate. 
And if hereupon you⌃ are not corrected, but walk perversely towards me, 
I also will walk with you with a perverse spirit, and I also will strike you seven times for your sins. 
And I will bring upon you a sword avenging the cause of my covenant, and you⌃ shall flee for refuge to your cities; and I will send out death against you, and you⌃ shall be delivered into the hands of your enemies. 
When I afflict you with famine of bread, then ten women shall bake your loaves in one oven, and they shall render your loaves by weight; and you⌃ shall eat, and not be satisfied. 
And if hereupon you⌃ will not obey me, but walk perversely towards me, 
then will I walk with you with a froward mind, and I will chasten you sevenfold according to your sins. 
And you⌃ shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall you⌃ eat. 
And I will render your pillars desolate, and will utterly destroy your wooden images made with hands; and I will lay your carcases on the carcases of your idols, and my soul shall loathe you. 
And I will lay your cities waste, and I will make your sanctuaries desolate, and I will not smell the savour of your sacrifices. 
And I will lay your land desolate, and your enemies who dwell in it shall wonder at it. 
And I will scatter you amongst the nations, and the sword shall come upon you and consume you; and your land shall be desolate, and your cities shall be desolate. 
Then the land shall enjoy its sabbaths all the days of its desolation. 
And you⌃ shall be in the land of your enemies; then the land shall keep its sabbaths, and the land shall enjoy its sabbaths all the days of its desolation: it shall keep sabbaths which it kept not amongst your sabbaths, when you⌃ lived in it. 
And to those who are left of you I will bring bondage into their heart in the land of their enemies; and the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, and they shall flee as fleeing from war, and shall fall when none pursues them. 
And brother shall disregard brother as in war, when none pursues; and you⌃ shall not be able to withstand your enemies. 
And you⌃ shall perish amongst the Gentiles, and the land of your enemies shall devour you. 
And those who are left of you shall perish, because of their sins, and because of the sins of their fathers: in the land of their enemies shall they consume away. 
And they shall confess their sins, and the sins of their fathers, that they have transgressed and neglected me, and that they have walked perversely before me, 
and I walked with them with a perverse mind; and I will destroy them in the land of their enemies: then shall their uncircumcised heart be ashamed, and then shall they acquiesce in the punishment of their sins. 
And I will remember the covenant of Jacob, and the covenant of Isaac, and the covenant of Abraam will I remember. 
And I will remember the land, and the land shall be left of them; then the land shall enjoy her sabbaths, when it is deserted through them: and they shall accept the punishment of their iniquities, because they neglected my judgements, and in their soul loathed my ordinances. 
And yet not even thus, while they were in the land of their enemies, did I overlook them, nor did I loathe them so as to consume them, to break my covenant made with them; for I am the Lord their God. 
And I will remember their former covenant, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage before the nation, to be their God; I am the Lord. 
These are my judgements and my ordinances, and the law which the Lord gave between himself and the children of Israel, in the mount Sina, by the hand of Moses. 
