Kings III.
Chapter 4.
And king Solomon reigned over Israel. 
And these are the princes which he had; Azarias son of Sadoc. 
Eliaph, and Achia son of Seba, scribes; and Josaphat son of Achilud, recorder. 
And Banaeas son of Jodae over the host; and Sadoc and Abiathar were priests. 
And Ornia the son of Nathan was over the officers; and Zabuth son of Nathan was the king's friend. 
And Achisar was steward, and Eliac the chief steward; and Eliab the son of Saph was over the family: and Adoniram the son of Audon over the tribute. 
And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, to provide for the king and his household; each one's turn came to supply for a month in the year. 
And these were their names: Been the son of Or in the mount of Ephraim, one. 
The son of Dacar, in Makes, and in Salabin, and Baethsamys, and Elon as far as Bethanan, one. 
The son of Esdi in Araboth; his was Socho, and all the land of Opher. 
All Nephthador belonged to the son of Aminadab, Tephath daughter of Solomon was his wife, one. 
Bana son of Achiluth had Ithaanach, and Mageddo, and his was the whole house of San which was by Sesathan below Esrae, and from Bethsan as far as Sabelmaula, as far as Maeber Lucam, one. 
The son of Naber in Raboth Galaad, to him fell the lot of Ergab in Basan, sixty great cities with walls, and brazen bars, one. 
Achinadab son of Saddo, had Maanaim. 
Achimaas was in Nephthalim, and he took Basemmath daughter of Solomon to wife, one. 
Baana son of Chusi, in Aser and in Baaloth, one, 
Josaphat son of Phuasud was in Issachar. 
Semei son of Ela, in Benjamin. 
Gaber son of Adai in the land of Gad, the land of Seon king of Esebon, and of Og king of Basan, and one officer in the land of Juda. 
And thus the officers provided king Solomon: and they execute every one in his month all the orders for the table of the king, they omit nothing. 
And they carried the barley and the straw for the horses and the chariots to the place where the king might be, each according to his charge. 
And these were the requisite supplies for Solomon: in one day thirty measures of fine flour, and sixty measures of fine pounded meal, 
and ten choice calves, and twenty pastured oxen, and a hundred sheep, besides stags, and choice fatted does. 
For he had dominion on this side the river, and he was at peace on all sides round about. 
And the Lord gave understanding to Solomon, and very much wisdom, and enlargement of heart, as the sand on the seashore. 
And Solomon abounded greatly beyond the wisdom of all the ancients, and beyond all the wise men of Egypt. 
And he was wiser than all other men: and he was wiser than Gaethan the Zarite, and than Aenan, and than Chalcad and Darala the son of Mal. 
And Solomon spoke three thousand proverbs, and his songs were five thousand. 
And he spoke of trees, from the cedar in Libanus even to the hyssop which comes out through the wall: he spoke also of cattle, and of birds, and of reptiles, and of fishes. 
And all the nations came to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and ambassadors from all the kings of the earth, as many as heard of his wisdom. And Solomon took to himself the daughter of Pharao to wife, and brought her into the city of David until he had finished the house of the Lord, and his own house, and the wall of Jerusalem. Then went up Pharao the king of Egypt, and took Gazer, and burnt it and the Chananite dwelling in Mergab; and Pharao gave them as a dowry to his daughter the wife of Solomon: and Solomon rebuilt Gazer. 
