Psalms.
Chapter 54.
(55) For the end, amongst Hymns of instruction by David. Listen, O God, to my prayer; and disregard not my supplication. 
Attend to me, and listen to me: I was grieved in my meditation, and troubled; 
because of the voice of the enemy, and because of the oppression of the sinner: for they brought iniquity against me, and were wrathfully angry with me. 
My heart was troubled within me; and the fear of death fell upon me. 
Fear and trembling came upon me, and darkness covered me. 
And I said, O that I had wings as those of a dove! then would I flee away, and be at rest. 
Behold! I have fled afar off, and lodged in the wilderness. Pause. 
I waited for him that should deliver me from distress of spirit and tempest. 
Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen iniquity and gain saying in the city. 
Day and night he shall go round about it upon its walls: iniquity and sorrow and unrighteousness are in the midst of it; 
and usury and craft have not failed from its streets. 
For if an enemy had reproached me, I would have endured it; and if one who hated me had spoken vauntingly against me, I would have hid myself from him. 
But you, O man like minded, my guide, and my acquaintance, 
who in companionship with me sweetened our food: we walked in the house of God in concord. 
Let death come upon them, and let them go down alive into Hades, for iniquity is in their dwellings, in the midst of them. 
I cried to God, and the Lord listened to me. 
Evening, and morning, and at noon I will declare and make known my wants: and he shall hear my voice. 
He shall deliver my soul in peace from them that draw near to me: for they were with me in many cases. 
God shall hear, and bring them low, even he that has existed from eternity. Pause. For they suffer no reverse, and therefore they have not feared God. 
He has reached forth his hand for retribution; they have profaned his covenant. 
They were scattered at the anger of his countenance, and his heart drew near them. His words were smoother than oil, yet are they darts. 
Cast your care upon the Lord, and he shall sustain you; he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. 
But you, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction; bloody and crafty men shall not live out half their days; but I will hope in you, O Lord. 
