Michaeas.
Chapter 4.
And at the last days the mountain of the Lord shall be manifest, established on the tops of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and the peoples shall hasten to it. 
And many nations shall go, and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and they shall show us his way, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Sion shall go forth a law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 
And he shall judge amongst many peoples, and shall rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into sickles; and nation shall no more lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn to war any more. 
And every one shall rest under his vine, and every one under his fig tree; and there shall be none to alarm them: for the mouth of the Lord Almighty has spoken these words. 
For all other nations shall walk everyone in his own way, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for ever and ever. 
In that day, says the Lord, I will gather her that is bruised, and will receive her that is cast out, and those whom I rejected. 
And I will make her that was bruised a remnant, and her that was rejected a mighty nation: and the Lord shall reign over them in mount Sion from henceforth, even for ever. 
And you, dark tower of the flock, daughter of Sion, on you the dominion shall come and enter in, even the first kingdom from Babylon to the daughter of Jerusalem. 
And now, why have you known calamities? was there not a king to you? or has your counsel perished that pangs as of a woman in travail have seized upon you? 
Be in pain, and strengthen yourself, and draw near, O daughter of Sion, as a woman in travail: for now you shall go forth out of the city, and shall lodge in the plain, and shall reach even to Babylon: thence shall the Lord your God deliver you, and thence shall he redeem you out of the hand of your enemies. 
And now have many nations gathered against you, saying, We will rejoice, and our eyes shall look upon Sion. 
But they know not the thought of the Lord, and have not understood his counsel: for he has gathered them as sheaves of the floor. 
Arise, and thresh them, O daughter of Sion: for I will make your horns iron, and I will make your hoofs brass: and you shall utterly destroy many nations, and shall consecrate their abundance to the Lord, and their strength to the Lord of all the earth. 
