Job.
Chapter 13.
Behold, mine eye has seen these things, and mine ear has heard them. 
And I know all that you⌃ too know; and I have not less understanding than you. 
Nevertheless I will speak to the Lord, and I will reason before him, if he will. 
But you⌃ are all bad physicians, and healers of diseases. 
But would that you⌃ were silent, and it would be wisdom to you in the end. 
But hear you⌃ the reasoning of my mouth, and attend to the judgement of my lips. 
Do you⌃ not speak before the Lord, and utter deceit before him? 
Or will you⌃ draw back? nay do, you⌃ yourselves be judges. 
For it were well if he would thoroughly search you: for though doing all things in your power you⌃ should attach yourselves to him, 
he will not reprove you at all the less: but if moreover you⌃ should secretly respect persons, 
shall not his whirlpool sweep you round, and terror from him fall upon you? 
And your glorying shall prove in the end to you like ashes, and your body like a body of clay. 
Be silent, that I may speak, and cease from mine anger, 
while I may take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand. 
Though the Mighty One should lay hand upon me, forasmuch as he has begun, verily I will speak, and plead before him. 
And this shall turn to me for salvation; for fraud shall have no entrance before him. 
Hear, hear you⌃ my words, for I will declare in your hearing. 
Behold, I am near my judgement: I know that I shall appear evidently just. 
For who is he that shall plead with me, that I should now be silent, and expire? 
But grant me two things: then I will not hide myself from your face. 
Withhold your hand from me: and let not your fear terrify me. 
Then shall you call, and I will listen to you: or you shall speak, and I will give you an answer. 
How many are my sins and my transgressions? teach me what they are. 
Therefore hide you yourself from me, and deem me your enemy? 
Will you be startled at me, as at a leaf shaken by the wind? or will you set yourself against me as against grass borne upon the breeze? 
for you have written evil things against me, and you have compassed me with the sins of my youth. 
And you have placed my foot in the stocks; and you have watched all my works, and have penetrated my heels. 
I am as that which waxes old like a bottle, or like a moth-eaten garment. 
