Genesis.
Chapter 30.
And Rachel having perceived that she bore Jacob no children, was jealous of her sister; and said to Jacob, Give me children; and if not, I shall die. 
And Jacob was angry with Rachel, and said to her, Am I in the place of God, who has deprived you of the fruit of the womb? 
And Rachel said to Jacob, Behold my handmaid Balla, go in to her, and she shall bear upon my knees, and I also shall have children by her. 
And she gave him Balla her maid, for a wife to him; and Jacob went in to her. 
And Balla, Rachel's maid, conceived, and bore Jacob a son. 
And Rachel said, God has given judgement for me, and listened to my voice, and has given me a son; therefore she called his name, Dan. 
And Balla, Rachel's maid, conceived yet again, and bore a second son to Jacob. 
And Rachel said, God has helped me, and I contended with my sister and prevailed; and she called his name, Nephthalim. 
And Lea saw that she ceased from bearing, and she took Zelpha her maid, and gave her to Jacob for a wife; and he went in to her. 
And Zelpha the maid of Lea conceived, and bore Jacob a son. 
And Lea said, It is happily: and she called his name, Gad. 
And Zelpha the maid of Lea conceived yet again, and bore Jacob a second son. 
And Lea said, I am blessed, for the women will pronounce me blessed; and she called his name, Aser. 
And Ruben went in the day of barley harvest, and found apples of mandrakes in the field, and brought them to his mother Lea; and Rachel said to Lea her sister, Give me of your son's mandrakes. 
And Lea said, Is it not enough for you that you have taken my husband, will you also take my son's mandrakes? And Rachel said, Not so: let him lie with you tonight for your son's mandrakes. 
And Jacob came in out of the field at even; and Lea went forth to meet him, and said, You shall come in to me this day, for I have hired you for my son's mandrakes; and he lay with her that night. 
And God listened to Lea, and she conceived, and bore Jacob a fifth son. 
And Lea said, God has given me my reward, because I gave my maid to my husband; and she called his name Issachar, which is, Reward. 
And Lea conceived again, and bore Jacob a sixth son. 
And Lea said, God has given me a good gift in this time; my husband will choose me, for I have born him six sons: and she called his name, Zabulon. 
And after this she bore a daughter; and she called her name, Dina. 
And God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her, and he opened her womb. 
And she conceived, and bore Jacob a son; and Rachel said, God has taken away my reproach. 
And she called his name Joseph, saying, Let God add to me another son. 
And it came to pass when Rachel had born Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, Send me away, that I may go to my place and to my land. 
Restore my wives and my children, for whom I have served you, that I may depart, for you know the service wherewith I have served you. 
And Laban said to him, If I have found grace in your sight, I would augur well, for the Lord has blessed me at your coming in. 
Appoint me your wages, and I will give them. 
And Jacob said, You know in what things I have served you, and how many cattle of your are with me. 
For it was little you had before my time, and it is increased to a multitude, and the Lord God has blessed you since my coming; now then, when shall I set up also my own house? 
And Laban said to him, What shall I give you? and Jacob said to him, You shall not give me anything; if you will do this thing for me, I will again tend your flocks and keep them. 
Let all your sheep pass by today, and separate thence every grey sheep amongst the rams, and every one that is speckled and spotted amongst the goats—this shall be my reward. 
And my righteousness shall answer for me on the morrow, for it is my reward before you: whatever shall not be spotted and speckled amongst the goats, and grey amongst the rams, shall be stolen with me. 
And Laban said to him, Let it be according to your word. 
And he separated in that day the spotted and speckled he-goats, and all the spotted and speckled she-goats, and all that was grey amongst the rams, and every one that was white amongst them, and he gave them into the hand of his sons. 
And he set a distance of a three days' journey between them and Jacob. And Jacob tended the cattle of Laban that were left behind. 
And Jacob took to himself green rods of storax tree and walnut and plane tree; and Jacob peeled in them white stripes; and as he drew off the green, the white stripe which he had made appeared alternate on the rods. 
And he laid the rods which he had peeled, in the hollows of the watering-troughs, that whenever the cattle should come to drink, as they should have come to drink before the rods, the cattle might conceive at the rods. 
So the cattle conceived at the rods, and the cattle brought forth young speckled, and streaked and spotted with ash-coloured spots. 
And Jacob separated the lambs, and set before the sheep a speckled ram, and every variegated one amongst the lambs, and he separated flocks for himself alone, and did not mingle them with the sheep of Laban. 
And it came to pass in the time wherein the cattle became pregnant, conceiving in the belly, Jacob put the rods before the cattle in the troughs, that they might conceive by the rods. 
But he did not put them in indiscriminately whenever the cattle happened to bring forth, but the unmarked ones were Laban's, and the marked ones were Jacob's. 
And the man became very rich, and he had many cattle, and oxen, and servants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses. 
