Exodus.
Chapter 29.
And these are the things which you shall do to them: you shall sanctify them, so that they shall serve me in the priesthood; and you shall take one young calf from the herd, and two unblemished rams; 
and unleavened loaves kneaded with oil, and unleavened cakes anointed with oil: you shall make them of fine flour of wheat. 
And you shall put them on one basket, and you shall offer them on the basket, and the young calf and the two rams. 
And you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the doors of the tabernacle of testimony, and you shall wash them with water. 
And having taken the garments, you shall put on Aaron your brother both the full-length robe and the ephod and the oracle; and you shall join for him the oracle to the ephod. 
And you shall put the mitre on his head; and you shall put the plate, even the Holiness, on the mitre. 
And you shall take of the anointing oil, and you shall pour it on his head, and shall anoint him, 
and you shall bring his sons, and put garments on them. 
And you shall gird them with the girdles, and put the tires upon them, and they shall have a priestly office to me for ever; and you shall fill the hands of Aaron and the hands of his sons. 
And you shall bring the calf to the door of the tabernacle of witness; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the calf, before the Lord, by the doors of the tabernacle of witness. 
And you shall kill the calf before the Lord, by the doors of the tabernacle of witness. 
And you shall take of the blood of the calf, and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger, but all the rest of the blood you shall pour out at the foot of the altar. 
And you shall take all the fat that is on the belly, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and shall put them upon the altar. 
But the flesh of the calf, and his skin, and his dung, shall you burn with fire without the camp; for it is an offering on account of sin. 
And you shall take one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram. 
And you shall kill it, and take the blood and pour it on the altar round about. 
And you shall divide the ram by his several limbs, and you shall wash the inward parts and the feet with water, and you shall put them on the divided parts with the head. 
And you shall offer the whole ram on the altar, a whole burnt offering to the Lord for a sweet smelling savour: it is an offering of incense to the Lord. 
And you shall take the second ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram. 
And you shall kill it, and take of the blood of it, and put it on the tip of Aaron's right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, and on the tips of the right ears of his sons, and on the thumbs of their right hands, and on the great toes of their right feet. 
And you shall take of the blood from the altar, and of the anointing oil; and you shall sprinkle it upon Aaron and on his garments, and on his sons and on his sons' garments with him; and he shall be sanctified and his apparel, and his sons and his sons' apparel with him: but the blood of the ram you shall pour round about upon the altar. 
And you shall take from the ram its fat, both the fat that covers the belly, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder, for this is a consecration. 
And one cake made with oil, and one cake from the basket of unleavened bread set forth before the Lord. 
And you shall put them all on the hands of Aaron, and on the hands of his sons, and you shall separate them as a separate offering before the Lord. 
And you shall take them from their hands, and shall offer them up on the altar of whole burnt offering for a sweet smelling savour before the Lord: it is an offering to the Lord. 
And you shall take the breast from the ram of consecration which is Aaron's, and you shall separate it as a separate offering before the Lord, and it shall be to you for a portion. 
And you shall sanctify the separated breast and the shoulder of removal which has been separated, and which has been removed from the ram of consecration, of the portion of Aaron and of that of his sons. 
And it shall be a perpetual statute of the children of Israel to Aaron and his sons, for this is a separate offering; and it shall be a special offering from the children of Israel, from the peace-offerings of the children of Israel, a special offering to the Lord. 
And the apparel of the sanctuary which is Aaron's shall be his son's after him, for them to be anointed in them, and to fill their hands. 
The priest his successor from amongst his sons who shall go into the tabernacle of witness to minister in the holies, shall put them on seven days. 
And you shall take the ram of consecration, and you shall boil the flesh in the holy place. 
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the loaves in the basket, by the doors of the tabernacle of witness. 
They shall eat the offerings with which they were sanctified to fill their hands, to sanctify them; and a stranger shall not eat of them, for they are holy. 
And if anything be left of the flesh of the sacrifice of consecration and of the loaves until the morning, you shall burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, for it is a holy thing. 
And thus shall you do for Aaron and for his sons according to all things that I have commanded you; seven days shall you fill their hands. 
And you shall sacrifice the calf of the sin-offering on the day of purification, and you shall purify the altar when you do perform consecration upon it, and you shall anoint it so as to sanctify it. 
Seven days shall you purify the altar and sanctify it; and the altar shall be most holy, every one that touches the altar shall be hallowed. 
And these are the offerings which you shall offer upon the altar; two unblemished lambs of a year old daily on the altar continually, a constant offering. 
One lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the second lamb you shall offer in the evening. 
And a tenth measure of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil, and a drink-offering the fourth part of a hin of wine for one lamb. 
And you shall offer the second lamb in the evening, after the manner of the morning-offering, and according to the drink-offering of the morning lamb; you shall offer it an offering to the Lord for a sweet smelling savour, 
a perpetual sacrifice throughout your generations, at the door of the tabernacle of witness before the Lord; wherein I will be known to you from thence, so as to speak to you. 
And I will there give orders to the children of Israel, and I will be sanctified in my glory. 
And I will sanctify the tabernacle of testimony and the altar, and I will sanctify Aaron and his sons, to minister as priests to me. 
And I will be called upon amongst the children of Israel, and will be their God. 
And they shall know that I am the Lord their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, to be called upon by them, and to be their God. 
