Tobit.
Chapter 4.
In that day Tobit remembered the money which he had committed to Gabael in Rages of Media, 
And said with himself, I have wished for death; therefore do I not call for my son Tobias that I may signify to him of the money before I die? 
And when he had called him, he said, My son, when I am dead, bury me; and despise not your mother, but honour her all the days of your life, and do that which shall please her, and grieve her not. 
Remember, my son, that she saw many dangers for you, when you were in her womb: and when she is dead, bury her by me in one grave. 
My son, be mindful of the Lord our God all your days, and let not your will be set to sin, or to transgress his commandments: do uprightly all your life long, and follow not the ways of unrighteousness. 
For if you deal truly, your doings shall prosperously succeed to you, and to all them that live justly. 
Give alms of your substance; and when you give alms, let not your eye be envious, neither turn your face from any poor, and the face of God shall not be turned away from you. 
If you have abundance give alms accordingly: if you have but a little, be not afraid to give according to that little: 
For you lay up a good treasure for yourself against the day of necessity. 
Because that alms do deliver from death, and suffers not to come into darkness. 
For alms is a good gift to all that give it in the sight of the most High. 
Beware of all whoredom, my son, and chiefly take a wife of the seed of your fathers, and take not a strange woman to wife, which is not of your father's tribe: for we are the children of the prophets, Noe, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: remember, my son, that our fathers from the beginning, even that they all married wives of their own kindred, and were blessed in their children, and their seed shall inherit the land. 
Now therefore, my son, love your brethren, and despise not in your heart your brethren, the sons and daughters of your people, in not taking a wife of them: for in pride is destruction and much trouble, and in lewdness is decay and great lack: for lewdness is the mother of famine. 
Let not the wages of any man, which has wrought for you, wait with you, but give him it out of hand: for if you serve God, he will also repay you: be circumspect my son, in all things you do, and be wise in all your conversation. 
Do that to no man which you hate: drink not wine to make you drunken: neither let drunkenness go with you in your journey. 
Give of your bread to the hungry, and of your garments to them that are naked; and according to your abundance give alms: and let not your eye be envious, when you give alms. 
Pour out your bread on the burial of the just, but give nothing to the wicked. 
Ask counsel of all that are wise, and despise not any counsel that is profitable. 
Bless the Lord your God always, and desire of him that your ways may be directed, and that all your paths and counsels may prosper: for every nation has not counsel; but the Lord himself gives all good things, and he humbles whom he will, as he will; now therefore, my son, remember my commandments, neither let them be put out of your mind. 
And now I signify this to they that I committed ten talents to Gabael the son of Gabrias at Rages in Media. 
And fear not, my son, that we are made poor: for you have much wealth, if you fear God, and depart from all sin, and do that which is pleasing in his sight. 
