Job.
Chapter 14.
For a mortal born of a woman is short lived, and full of wrath. 
Or he falls like a flower that has bloomed; and he departs like a shadow, and can’t continue. 
Hast you not taken account even of him, and caused him to enter into judgement before you? 
For who shall be pure from uncleanness? not even one; 
if even his life should be but one day upon the earth: and his months are numbered by him: you have appointed him for a time, and he shall by no means exceed it. 
Depart from him, that he may be quiet, and take pleasure in his life, though as a hireling. 
For there is hope for a tree, even if it should be cut down, that it shall blossom again, and its branch shall not fail. 
For though its root should grow old in the earth, and its stem die in the rock; 
it will blossom from the scent of water, and will produce a crop, as one newly planted. 
But a man that has died is utterly gone; and when a mortal has fallen, he is no more. 
For the sea wastes in length of time, and a river fails and is dried up. 
And man that has lain down in death shall certainly not rise again till the heaven be dissolved, and they shall not awake from their sleep. 
For oh that you had kept me in the grave, and had hidden me until your wrath should cease, and you should set me a time in which you would remember me! 
For if a man should die, shall he live again, having accomplished the days of his life? I will wait till I exist again? 
Then shall you call, and I will listen to you: but do not you reject the work of your hands. 
But you have numbered my devices: and not one of my sins shall escape you? 
An you have sealed up my transgressions in a bag, and marked if I have been guilty of any transgression unawares. 
And verily a mountain falling will utterly be destroyed, and a rock shall be worn out of its place. 
The waters wear the stones, and waters falling headlong overflow a heap of the earth: and you destroy the hope of man. 
You drive him to an end, and he is gone: you set your face against him, and send him away; 
and though his children be multiplied, he knows it not; and if they be few, he is not aware. 
But his flesh is in pain, and his soul mourns. 
