Proverbs.
Chapter 12.
He that loves instruction loves sense, but he that hates reproofs is a fool. 
He that has found favour with the Lord is made better; but a transgressor shall be passed over in silence. 
A man shall not prosper by wickedness; but the roots of the righteous shall not be taken up. 
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband; but as a worm in wood, so a bad woman destroys her husband. 
The thoughts of the righteous are true judgements; but ungodly men devise deceits. 
The words of ungodly men are crafty; but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. 
When the ungodly is overthrown, he vanishes away; but the houses of the just remain. 
The mouth of an understanding man is praised by a man; but he that is dull of heart is had in derision. 
Better is a man in dishonour serving himself, than one honouring himself and lacking bread. 
A righteous man has pity for the lives of his cattle; but the bowels of the ungodly are unmerciful. 
He that tills his own land shall be satisfied with bread; but they that pursue vanities are void of understanding. He that enjoys himself in banquets of wine, shall leave dishonour in his own strong holds. 
The desires of the ungodly are evil; but the roots of the godly are firmly set. 
For the sin of his lips a sinner falls into snare; but a righteous man escapes from them. He whose looks are gentle shall be pitied, but he that contends in the gates will afflict souls. 
The soul of a man shall be filled with good from the fruits of his mouth; and the recompence of his lips shall be given to him. 
The ways of fools are right in their own eyes; but a wise man hearkens to counsels. 
A fool declares his wrath the same day; but a prudent man hides his own disgrace. 
A righteous man declares the open truth; but an unjust witness is deceitful. 
Some wound as they speak, like swords; but the tongues of the wise heal. 
True lips establish testimony; but a hasty witness has an unjust tongue. 
There is deceit in the heart of him that imagines evil; but they that love peace shall rejoice. 
No injustice will please a just man; but the ungodly will be filled with mischief. 
Lying lips are a abomination to the Lord; but he that deals faithfully is accepted with him. 
An understanding man is a throne of wisdom; but the heart of fools shall meet with curses. 
The hand of chosen men shall easily obtain rule; but the deceitful shall be for a prey. 
A terrible word troubles the heart of a righteous man; but a good message rejoices him. 
A just arbitrator shall be his own friend; but mischief shall pursue sinners; and the way of ungodly men shall lead them astray. 
A deceitful man shall catch no game; but a blameless man is a precious possession. 
In the ways of righteousness is life; but the ways of those that remember injuries lead to death. 
