Proverbs.
Chapter 18.
A man who wishes to separate from friends seeks excuses; but at all times he will be liable to reproach. 
A senseless man feels no need of wisdom, for he is rather led by folly. 
When an ungodly man comes into a depth of evils, he despises them; but dishonour and reproach come upon him. 
A word in the heart of a man is a deep water, and a river and fountain of life spring forth. 
It is not good to accept the person of the ungodly, nor is it holy to pervert justice in judgement. 
The lips of a fool bring him into troubles, and his bold mouth calls for death. 
A fool's mouth is ruin to him, and his lips are a snare to his soul. 
Fear casts down the slothful; and the souls of the effeminate shall hunger. 
A man who helps not himself by his labour is brother of him that ruins himself. 
The name of the Lord is of great strength; and the righteous running to it are exalted. 
The wealth of a rich man is a strong city; and its glory casts a broad shadow. 
Before ruin a man's heart is exalted, and before honour it is humble. 
Whoso answers a word before he hears a cause, it is folly and reproach to him. 
A wise servant calms a man's anger; but who can endure a faint-hearted man? 
The heart of the sensible man purchases discretion; and the ears of the wise seek understanding. 
A man's gift enlarges him, and seats him amongst princes. 
A righteous man accuses himself at the beginning of his speech, but when he has entered upon the attack, the adversary is reproved. 
A silent man quells strifes, and determines between great powers. 
A brother helped by a brother is as a strong and high city; and is as strong as a well-founded palace. 
A man fills his belly with the fruits of his mouth; and he shall be satisfied with the fruits of his lips. 
Life and death are in the power of the tongue; and they that rule it shall eat the fruits thereof. 
He that has found a good wife has found favours, and has received gladness from God. He that puts away a good wife, puts away a good thing, and he that keeps an adulteress is foolish and ungodly. 
