Proverbs.
Chapter 23.
If you sit to sup at the table of a prince, consider attentively the things set before you: 
and apply your hand, knowing that it behoves you to prepare such meats: but if you are very insatiable, 
desire not his provisions; for these belong to a false life. 
If you are poor, measure not yourself with a rich man; but refrain yourself in your wisdom. 
If you should fix your eye upon him, he will disappear; for wings like an eagle's are prepared for him, and he returns to the house of his master. 
Sup not with an envious man, neither desire you his meats: 
so he eats and drinks as if any one should swallow a hair, and do not bring him in to yourself, nor eat your morsel with him: 
for he will vomit it up, and spoil your fair words. 
Say nothing in the ears of a fool, lest at any time he sneer at your wise words. 
Remove not the ancient landmarks; and enter not upon the possession of the fatherless: 
for the Lord is their redeemer; he is mighty, and will plead their cause with you. 
Apply your heart to instruction, and prepare your ears for words of discretion. 
Refrain not from chastening a child; for if you beat him with the rod, he shall not die. 
For you shall beat him with the rod, and shall deliver his soul from death. 
Son, if your heart be wise, you shall also gladden my heart; 
and your lips shall converse with my lips, if they be right. 
Let not your heart envy sinners: but be you in the fear of the Lord all the day. 
For if you should keep these things, you shall have posterity; and your hope shall not be removed. 
Hear, my son, and be wise, and rightly direct the thoughts of your heart. 
Be not a wine-bibber, neither continue long at feasts, and purchases of flesh: 
for every drunkard and whoremonger shall be poor; and every sluggard shall clothe himself with tatters and ragged garments. 
Listen, my son, to your father which begot you, and despise not your mother because she is grown old. 
A righteous father brings up his children well; and his soul rejoices over a wise son. 
Let your father and your mother rejoice over you, and let her that bore you be glad. 
My son, give me your heart, and let your eyes observe my ways. 
For a strange house is a vessel full of holes; and a strange well is narrow. 
For such a one shall perish suddenly; and every transgressor shall be cut off. 
Who has woe? who trouble? who has quarrels? and who vexations and disputes? who has bruises without a cause? whose eyes are livid? 
Are not those of them that stay long at wine? are not those of them that haunt the places where banquets are? Be not drunk with wine; but converse with just men, and converse with them openly. 
For if you should set your eyes on bowls and cups, you shall afterwards go more naked than a pestle. 
But at last such a one stretches himself out as one struck by a serpent, and venom is diffused through him as by a horned serpent. 
Whenever your eyes shall behold a strange woman, then your mouth shall speak perverse things. 
And you shall lie as in the midst of the sea, and as a pilot in a great storm. 
And you shall say, They struck me, and I was not pained; and they mocked me, and I knew it not: when will it be morning, that I may go and seek those with whom I may go in company? 
