Jeremias.
Chapter 26.
In the beginning of the reign of king Sedekias, there came this word concerning Aelam. 
FOR EGYPT, AGAINST THE POWER OF PHARAO NECHAO KING OF EGYPT, who was by the river Euphrates in Charmis, whom Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon struck in the fourth year of Joakim king of Juda. 
Take up arms and spears, and draw near to battle; 
and harness the horses: mount, you⌃ horsemen, and stand ready in your helmets; advance the spears, and put on your breastplates. 
Why do they fear, and turn back? even because their mighty men shall be slain: they have utterly fled, and being hemmed in they have not rallied, says the Lord. 
Let not the swift flee, and let not the mighty man escape to the north: the forces at Euphrates are become feeble, and they have fallen. 
Who is this that shall come up as a river, and as rivers roll their waves? 
The waters of Egypt shall come up like a river: and he said, I will go up, and will cover the earth, and will destroy the dwellers in it. 
Mount you⌃ the horses, prepare the chariots; go forth, you⌃ warriors of the Ethiopians, and Libyans armed with shields; and mount, you⌃ Lydians, bend the bow. 
And that day shall be to the Lord our God a day of vengeance, to take vengeance on his enemies: and the sword of the Lord shall devour, and be glutted, and be drunken with their blood: for the Lord has a sacrifice from the land of the north at the river Euphrates. 
Go up to Galaad, and take balm for the virgin daughter of Egypt: in vain have you multiplied your medicines; there is no help in you. 
The nations have heard your voice, and the land has been filled with your cry: for the warriors have fainted fighting one against another, and both are fallen together. 
THE WORDS WHICH THE LORD SPOKE by Jeremias, concerning the coming of the king of Babylon to strike the land of Egypt. 
Proclaim it at Magdol, and declare it at Memphis: say you⌃, Stand up, and prepare; for the sword has devoured your yew tree. 
Therefore has Apis fled from you? your choice calf has not remained; for the Lord has utterly weakened him. 
And your multitude has fainted and fallen; and each one said to his neighbour, Let us arise, and return into our country to our people, from the Grecian sword. 
Call you⌃ the name of Pharao Nechao king of Egypt, Saon esbeie moed. 
As I live, says the Lord God, he shall come as Itabyrion amongst the mountains, and as Carmel that is on the sea. 
O daughter of Egypt dwelling at home, prepare you stuff for removing: for Memphis shall be utterly desolate, and shall be called Woe, because there are no inhabitants in it. 
Egypt is a fair heifer, but destruction from the north is come upon her. 
Also her hired soldiers in the midst of her are as fatted calves fed in her; for they also have turned, and fled with one accord: they stood not, for the day of destruction was come upon them, and the time of their retribution. 
Their voice is as that of a hissing serpent, for they go upon the sand; they shall come upon Egypt with axes, as men that cut wood. 
They shall cut down her forest, says the Lord, for their number can’t at all be conjectured, for it exceeds the locust in multitude, and they are innumerable. 
The daughter of Egypt is confounded; she is delivered into the hands of a people from the north. 
Behold, I will avenge Ammon her son upon Pharao, and upon them that trust in him. 
But fear not you, my servant Jacob, neither be you alarmed, Israel: for, behold, I will save you from afar, and your seed from their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and be at ease, and sleep, and there shall be no one to trouble him. 
Fear not you, my servant Jacob, says the Lord; for I am with you: she that was without fear and in luxury, has been delivered up: for I will make a full end of every nation amongst whom I have thrust you forth; but I will not cause you to fail: yet will I chastise you in the way of judgement, and will not hold you entirely guiltless. 
