MALACHIAS.
Chapter 1.
The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by the hand of his messenger. Lay it, I pray you, to heart. 
I have loved you, says the Lord. And you⌃ said, Wherein have you loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? says the Lord: yet I loved Jacob, 
and hated Esau and laid waste his borders, and made his heritage as dwellings of the wilderness? 
Because one will say, Idumea has been overthrown, but let us return and rebuild the desolate places; thus says the Lord Almighty, They shall build, but I will throw down; and they shall be called The borders of wickedness, and, The people against whom the Lord has set himself for ever. 
And your eyes shall see, and you⌃ shall say, The Lord has been magnified upon the borders of Israel. 
A son honours his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is mine honour? and if I am a master, where is my fear? says the Lord Almighty. You⌃ the priests are they that despise my name: yet you⌃ said, Wherein have we despised your name? 
In that you⌃ bring to mine altar polluted bread; and you⌃ said, Wherein have you⌃ polluted it? In that you⌃ say, The table of the Lord is polluted, and that which was set thereon you⌃ have despised. 
For if you⌃ bring a blind victim for sacrifices, is it not evil? and if you⌃ bring the lame or the sick, is it not evil? offer it now to your ruler, and see if he will receive you, if he will accept your person, says the Lord Almighty. 
And now entreat the face of your God, and make supplication to him. These things have been done by your hands; shall I accept you? says the Lord Almighty. 
Because even amongst you the doors shall be shut, and one will not kindle the fire of mine altar for nothing, I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord Almighty, and I will not accept a sacrifice at your hands. 
For from the rising of the sun even to the going down thereof my name has been glorified amongst the Gentiles; and in every place incense is offered to my name, and a pure offering: for my name is great amongst the Gentiles, says the Lord Almighty. 
But you⌃ profane it, in that you⌃ say, The table of the Lord is polluted, and his meats set thereon are despised. 
And you⌃ said, These services are troublesome: therefore I have utterly rejected them with scorn, says the Lord Almighty: and you⌃ brought in torn victims, and lame, and sick: if then you⌃ should bring an offering, shall I accept them at your hands? says the Lord Almighty. 
And cursed is the man who had the power, and possessed a male in his flock, and whose vow is upon him, and who sacrifices a corrupt thing to the Lord: for I am a great King, says the Lord Almighty, and my name is glorious amongst the nations. 
