Ecclesiastes.
Chapter 5.
Be not hasty with your mouth, and let not your heart be swift to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven above, and you upon earth: therefore let your words be few. 
For through the multitude of trial a dream comes; and a fool's voice is with a multitude of words. 
Whenever you shall vow a vow to God, defer not to pay it; for he has no pleasure in fools: pay you therefore whatever you shall have vowed. 
It is better that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay. 
Suffer not your mouth to lead your flesh to sin; and say not in the presence of God, It was an error: lest God be angry at your voice, and destroy the works of your hands. 
For there is evil in a multitude of dreams and vanities and many words: but fear you God. 
If you should see the oppression of the poor, and the wresting of judgement and of justice in the land, wonder not at the matter: for there is a high one to watch over him that is high, and high ones over them. 
Also the abundance of the earth is for every one: the king is dependent on the tilled field. 
He that loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver: and who has loved gain, in the abundance thereof? this is also vanity. 
In the multitude of good they are increased that eat it: and what virtue has the owner, but the right of beholding it with his eyes? 
The sleep of a servant is sweet, whether he eat little or much: but to one who is satiated with wealth, there is none that suffers him to sleep. 
There is an infirmity which I have seen under the sun, namely, wealth kept for its owner to his hurt. 
And that wealth shall perish in an evil trouble: and the man begets a son, and there is nothing in his hand. 
As he came forth naked from his mother's womb, he shall return back as he came, and he shall receive nothing for his labour, that it should go with him in his hand. 
And this is also an evil infirmity: for as he came, so also shall he return: and what is his gain, for which he vainly labours? 
Yes, all his days are in darkness, and in mourning, and much sorrow, and infirmity, and wrath. 
Behold, I have seen good, that it is a fine thing for a man to eat and to drink, and to see good in all his labour in which he may labour under the sun, all the number of the days of his life which God has given to him: for it is his portion. 
Yes, and as for every man to whom God has given wealth and possessions, and has given him power to eat thereof, and to receive his portion, and to rejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God. 
For he shall not much remember the days of his life; for God troubles him in the mirth of his heart. 
