Proverbs.
Chapter 28.
The ungodly man flees when no one pursues: but the righteous is confident as a lion. 
By reason of the sins of ungodly men quarrels arise; but a wise man will quell them. 
A bold man oppresses the poor by ungodly deeds. As an impetuous and profitable rain, 
so they that forsake the law praise ungodliness; but they that love the law fortify themselves with a wall. 
Evil men will not understand judgement: but they that seek the Lord will understand everything. 
A poor man walking in truth is better than a rich liar. 
A wise son keeps the law: but he that keeps up debauchery dishonours his father. 
He that increases his wealth by usuries and unjust gains, gathers it for him that pities the poor. 
He that turns away his ear from hearing the law, even he has made his prayer abominable. 
He that causes upright men to err in an evil way, himself shall fall into destruction: transgressor also shall pass by prosperity, but shall not enter into it. 
A rich man is wise in his own conceit; but an intelligent poor man will condemn him. 
By reason of the help of righteous men great glory arises: but in the places of the ungodly men are caught. 
He that covers his own ungodliness shall not prosper: but he that blames himself shall be loved. 
Blessed is the man who religiously fears always: but the hard of heart shall fall into mischiefs. 
A hungry lion and a thirsty wolf is he, who, being poor, rules over a poor nation. 
A king in need of revenues is a great oppressor: but he that hates injustice shall live a long time. 
He that becomes surety for a man charged with murder shall be an exile, and not in safety. Chasten your son, and he shall love you, and give honour to your soul: he shall not obey a sinful nation. 
He that walks justly is assisted: but he that walks in crooked ways shall be entangled therein. 
He that tills his own land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that follows idleness shall have plenty of poverty. 
A man worthy of credit shall be much blessed: but the wicked shall not be unpunished. 
He that reverences not the persons of the just is not good: such a one will sell a man for a morsel of bread. 
An envious man makes haste to be rich, and knows not that the merciful man will have the mastery over him. 
He that reproves a man's ways shall have more favour than he that flatters with the tongue. 
He that casts off father or mother, and thinks he sins not; the same is partaker with an ungodly man. 
An unbelieving man judges rashly: but he that trusts in the Lord will act carefully. 
He that trusts to a bold heart, such an one is a fool: but he that walks in wisdom shall be safe. 
He that gives to the poor shall not be in lack: but he that turns away his eye from him shall be in great distress. 
In the places of ungodly men the righteous mourn: but in their destruction the righteous shall be multiplied. 
