Psalms.
Chapter 138.
(139) For the end, a Psalm of David. O Lord, you have proved me, and known me. 
You know my down-sitting and mine up-rising: you understand my thoughts long before. 
You have traced my path and my bed, and have foreseen all my ways. 
For there is no unrighteous word in my tongue: behold, O Lord, you have known all things, 
the last and the first: you have fashioned me, and laid your hand upon me. 
The knowledge of you is too wonderful for me; it is very difficult, I can’t attain to it. 
Whither shall I go from your Spirit? and whither shall I flee from my presence? 
If I should go up to heaven, you are there: if I should go down to hell, you are present. 
If I should spread my wings to fly straight forward, and sojourn at the extremity of the sea, it would be vain, 
for even there your hand would guide me, and your right hand would hold me. 
When I said, Surely the darkness will cover me; even the night was light in my luxury. 
For darkness will not be darkness with you; but night will be light as day: as its darkness, so shall its light be to you. 
For you, O Lord, have possessed my reins; you have helped me from my mother's womb. 
I will give you thanks; for you are fearfully wondrous; wondrous are your works; and my soul knows it well. 
My bones, which you made in secret were not hidden from you, nor my substance, in the lowest parts of the earth. 
Your eyes saw my unwrought substance, and all men shall be written in your book; they shall be formed by day, though there should for a time be no one amongst them. 
But your friends, O God, have been greatly honoured by me; their rule has been greatly strengthened. 
I will number them, and they shall be multiplied beyond the sand; I awake, and am still with you. 
Oh that you would kill the wicked, O God; depart from me, you⌃ men of blood. 
For you will say concerning their thought, that they shall take your cities in vain. 
Have I not hated them, O Lord, that hate you? and wasted away because of your enemies? 
I have hated them with perfect hatred; they were counted my enemies. 
Prove me, O God, and know my heart; examine me, and know my paths; 
and see if there is any way of iniquity in me, and lead me in an everlasting way. 
