Ruth.
Chapter 3.
And she lodged with her mother-in-law: and Noemin her mother-in-law said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? 
And now is not Booz our kinsman, with whose damsels you were? behold, he winnows barley this night in the floor. 
But do you wash, and anoint yourself, and put your raiment upon you, and go up to the threshing floor: do not discover yourself to the man until he has done eating and drinking. 
And it shall come to pass when he lies down, that you shall mark the place where he lies down, and shall come and lift up the covering of his feet, and shall lie down; and he shall tell you what you shall do. 
And Ruth said to her, All that you shall say, I will do. 
And she went down to the threshing floor, and did according to all that her mother-in-law enjoined her. 
And Booz ate and drank, and his heart was glad, and he came to lie down by the side of the heap of corn; and she came secretly, and lifted up the covering of his feet. 
And it came to pass at midnight that the man was amazed, and troubled, and behold, a woman lay at his feet. 
And he said, Who are you? and she said, I am your handmaid Ruth; spread therefore your skirt over your handmaid, for you are a near relation. 
And Booz said, Blessed be you of the Lord God, my daughter, for you have made your latter kindness greater than the former, in that you follow not after young men, whether any be poor or rich. 
And now fear not, my daughter, whatever you shall say I will do to you; for all the tribe of my people knows that you are a virtuous woman. 
And now I am truly akin to you; nevertheless there is a kinsman nearer than I. 
Lodge here for the night, and it shall be in the morning, if he will do the part of a kinsman to you, well—let him do it: but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to you, I will do the kinsman's part to you, as the Lord lives; lie down till the morning. 
And she lay at his feet until the morning; and she rose up before a man could know his neighbour; and Booz said, Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor. 
And he said to her, Bring the apron that is upon you: and she held it, and he measured six measures of barley, and put them upon her, and she went into the city. 
And Ruth went in to her mother-in-law, and she said to her, My daughter! and Ruth told her all that the man had done to her. 
And she said to her, He gave me these six measures of barley, for he said to me, Go not empty to your mother-in-law. 
And she said, Sit still, my daughter, until you shall know how the matter will fall out; for the man will not rest until the matter be accomplished this day. 
