Esias.
Chapter 34.
Draw near, you⌃ nations; and listen, you⌃ princes; let the earth hear, and they that are in it; the world, and the people that are therein. 
For the wrath of the Lord is upon all nations, and his anger upon the number of them, to destroy them, and give them up to slaughter. 
And their slain shall be cast forth, and their corpses; and their ill savour shall come up, and the mountains shall be made wet with their blood. 
And all the powers of the heavens shall melt, and the sky shall be rolled up like a scroll: and all the stars shall fall like leaves from a vine, and as leaves fall from a fig tree. 
My sword has been made drunk in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Idumea, and with judgement upon the people doomed to destruction. 
The sword of the Lord is filled with blood, it is glutted with fat, with the blood of goats and lambs, and with the fat of goats and rams: for the Lord has a sacrifice in Bosor, and a great slaughter in Idumea. 
And the mighty ones shall fall with them, and the rams and the bulls; and the land shall be soaked with blood, and shall be filled with their fat. 
For it is the day of judgement of the Lord, and the year of the recompence of Sion in judgement. 
And her valleys shall be turned into pitch, and her land into sulphur; and her land shall be as pitch burning night and day; 
and it shall never be quenched, and her smoke shall go up: it shall be made desolate throughout her generations, 
and for a long time birds and hedgehogs, and ibises and ravens shall dwell in it: and the measuring line of desolation shall be cast over it, and satyrs shall dwell in it. 
Her princes shall be no more; for her kings and her great men shall be destroyed. 
And thorns shall spring up in their cities, and in her strong holds: and they shall be habitations of monsters, and a court of ostriches. 
And devils shall meet with satyrs, and they shall cry one to the other: there shall satyrs rest, having found for themselves a place of rest. 
There has the hedgehog made its nest, and the earth has safely preserved its young: there have the deer met, and seen one another's faces. 
They passed by in full number, and not one of them perished: they sought not one another; for the Lord commanded them, and his Spirit gathered them. 
And he shall cast lots for them, and his hand has portioned out their pasture, saying, You⌃ shall inherit the land for ever: they shall rest on it through all generations. 
