Zacharias.
Chapter 6.
And I turned, and lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and, behold, four chariots coming out from between two mountains; and the mountains were brazen mountains. 
In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses; 
and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot piebald and ash-coloured horses. 
And I answered and said to the angel that talked with me, What are these, my Lord? 
And the angel that talked with me answered and said, These are the four winds of heaven, and they are going forth to stand before the Lord of all the earth. 
As for the chariot in which were the black horses, they went out to the land of the north; and the white went out after them; and the piebald went out to the land of the south. 
And the ash-coloured went out, and looked to go and compass the earth: and he said, Go, and compass the earth. And they compassed the earth. 
And he cried out and spoke to me, saying, Behold, these go out to the land of the north, and they have quieted mine anger in the land of the north. 
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Take the things of the captivity from the chief men, and from the useful men of it, and from them that have understood it; and you shall enter in that day into the house of Josias the son of Sophonias that came out of Babylon. 
And you shall take silver and gold, and make crowns, and you shall put them upon the head of Jesus the son of Josedec the high priest; 
and you shall say to him, Thus says the Lord Almighty; Behold the man whose name is The Branch; and he shall spring up from his stem, and build the house of the Lord. 
And he shall receive power, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and there shall be a priest on his right hand, and a peaceful counsel shall be between them both. 
And the crown shall be to them that wait patiently, and to the useful men of the captivity, and to them that have known it, and for the favour of the son of Sophonias, and for a psalm in the house of the Lord. 
And they that are far from them shall come and build in the house of the Lord, and you⌃ shall know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you: and this shall come to pass, if you⌃ will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God. 
