Genesis.
Chapter 23.
And the life of Sarrha was an hundred and twenty-seven years. 
And Sarrha died in the city of Arboc, which is in the valley, this is Chebron in the land of Chanaan; and Abraam came to lament for Sarrha and to mourn. 
And Abraam stood up from before his dead; and Abraam spoke to the sons of Chet, saying, 
I am a sojourner and a stranger amongst you, give me therefore possession of a burying-place amongst you, and I will bury my dead away from me. 
And the sons of Chet answered to Abraam, saying, Not so, Sir, 
but hear us; you are in the midst of us a king from God; bury your dead in our choice sepulchres, for not one of us will by any means withhold his sepulchre from you, so that you should not bury your dead there. 
And Abraam rose up and did obeisance to the people of the land, to the sons of Chet. 
And Abraam spoke to them, saying, If you⌃ have it in your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, listen to me, and speak for me to Ephron the son Saar. 
And let him give me the double cave which he has, which is in a part of his field, let him give it me for the money it is worth for possession of a burying-place amongst you. 
Now Ephron was sitting in the midst of the children of Chet, and Ephron the Chettite answered Abraam and spoke in the hearing of the sons of Chet, and of all who entered the city, saying, 
Attend to me, my lord, and hear me, I give to you the field and the cave which is in it; I have given it you before all my country men; bury your dead. 
And Abraam did obeisance before the people of the land. 
And he said in the ears of Ephron before the people of the land, Since you are on my side, hear me; take the price of the field from me, and I will bury my dead there. 
But Ephron answered Abraam, saying, 
Nay, my lord, I have heard indeed, the land is worth four hundred silver didrachmas, but what can this be between me and you? nay, do you bury your dead. 
And Abraam listened to Ephron, and Abraam rendered to Ephron the money, which he mentioned in the ears of the sons of Chet, four hundred didrachmas of silver approved with merchants. 
And the field of Ephron, which was in Double Cave, which is opposite Mambre, the field and the cave, which was in it, and every tree which was in the field, and whatever is in its borders round about, were made sure in its borders round about, were made sure 
to Abraam for a possession, before the sons of Chet, and all that entered into the city. 
After this Abraam buried Sarrha his wife in the Double Cave of the field, which is opposite Mambre, this is Chebron in the land of Chanaan. 
So the field and the cave which was in it were made sure to Abraam for possession of a burying place, by the sons of Chet. 
