Tobit.
Chapter 11.
After these things Tobias went his way, praising God that he had given him a prosperous journey, and blessed Raguel and Edna his wife, and went on his way till they drew near to Nineve. 
Then Raphael said to Tobias, You know, brother, how you did leave your father: 
Let us haste before your wife, and prepare the house. 
And take in your hand the gall of the fish. So they went their way, and the dog went after them. 
Now Anna sat looking about towards the way for her son. 
And when she espied him coming, she said to his father, Behold, your son comes, and the man that went with him. 
Then said Raphael, I know, Tobias, that your father will open his eyes. 
Therefore anoint you his eyes with the gall, and being pricked therewith, he shall rub, and the whiteness shall fall away, and he shall see you. 
Then Anna ran forth, and fell upon the neck of her son, and said to him, Seeing I have seen you, my son, from henceforth I am content to die. And they wept both. 
Tobit also went forth towards the door, and stumbled: but his son ran to him, 
And took hold of his father: and he struck of the gall on his fathers' eyes, saying, Be of good hope, my father. 
And when his eyes began to hurt, he rubbed them; 
And the whiteness pilled away from the corners of his eyes: and when he saw his son, he fell upon his neck. 
And he wept, and said, Blessed are you, O God, and blessed is your name for ever; and blessed are all your holy angels: 
For you have scourged, and have taken pity on me: for, behold, I see my son Tobias. And his son went in rejoicing, and told his father the great things that had happened to him in Media. 
Then Tobit went out to meet his daughter in law at the gate of Nineve, rejoicing and praising God: and they which saw him go marvelled, because he had received his sight. 
But Tobias gave thanks before them, because God had mercy on him. And when he came near to Sara his daughter in law, he blessed her, saying, You are welcome, daughter: God be blessed, which has brought you to us, and blessed be your father and your mother. And there was joy amongst all his brethren which were at Nineve. 
And Achiacharus, and Nasbas his brother's son, came: 
And Tobias' wedding was kept seven days with great joy. 
