Sirach.
Chapter 4.
My son, defraud not the poor of his living, and make not the needy eyes to wait long. 
Make not an hungry soul sorrowful; neither provoke a man in his distress. 
Add not more trouble to an heart that is vexed; and defer not to give to him that is in need. 
Reject not the supplication of the afflicted; neither turn away your face from a poor man. 
Turn not away your eye from the needy, and give him none occasion to curse you: 
For if he curse you in the bitterness of his soul, his prayer shall be heard of him that made him. 
Get yourself the love of the congregation, and bow your head to a great man. 
Let it not grieve you to bow down your ear to the poor, and give him a friendly answer with meekness. 
Deliver him that suffers wrong from the hand of the oppressor; and be not faint-hearted when you sit in judgement. 
Be as a father to the fatherless, and instead of an husband to their mother: so shall you be as the son of the most High, and he shall love you more than your mother does. 
Wisdom exalts her children, and lays hold of them that seek her. 
He that loves her loves life; and they that seek to her early shall be filled with joy. 
He that holds her fast shall inherit glory; and wherever she enters, the Lord will bless. 
They that serve her shall minister to the Holy One: and them that love her the Lord does love. 
Whoso gives ear to her shall judge the nations: and he that attends to her shall dwell securely. 
If a man commit himself to her, he shall inherit her; and his generation shall hold her in possession. 
For at the first she will walk with him by crooked ways, and bring fear and dread upon him, and torment him with her discipline, until she may trust his soul, and try him by her laws. 
Then will she return the straight way to him, and comfort him, and show him her secrets. 
But if he go wrong, she will forsake him, and give him over to his own ruin. 
Observe the opportunity, and beware of evil; and be not ashamed when it concerns your soul. 
For there is a shame that brings sin; and there is a shame which is glory and grace. 
Accept no person against your soul, and let not the reverence of any man cause you to fall. 
And refrain not to speak, when there is occasion to do good, and hide not your wisdom in her beauty. 
For by speech wisdom shall be known: and learning by the word of the tongue. 
In no wise speak against the truth; but be abashed of the error of your ignorance. 
Be not ashamed to confess your sins; and force not the course of the river. 
Make not yourself an underling to a foolish man; neither accept the person of the mighty. 
Strive for the truth to death, and the Lord shall fight for you. 
Be not hasty in your tongue, and in your deeds slack and remiss. 
Be not as a lion in your house, nor frantick amongst your servants. 
Let not your hand be stretched out to receive, and shut when you should repay. 
