Kings IV.
Chapter 15.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel Azarias the son of Amessias king of Juda began to reign. 
Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jechelia of Jerusalem. 
And he did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to all things that Amessias his father did. 
Only he took not away any of the high places: as yet the people sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places. 
And the Lord plagued the king, and he was leprous till the day of his death; and he reigned in a separate house. And Joatham the king's son was over the household, judging the people of the land. 
And the rest of the acts of Azarias, and all that he did, are not these written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Juda? 
And Azarias slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Joatham his son reigned in his stead. 
In the thirty and eighth year of Azarias king of Juda Zacharias the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in Samaria six months. 
And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord, as his fathers had done: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin. 
And Sellum the son of Jabis and others conspired against him, and they struck him in Keblaam, and killed him, and he reigned in his stead. 
And the rest of the acts of Zacharias, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
This was the word of the Lord which he spoke to Ju, saying, Your sons of the fourth generation shall sit upon the throne of Israel: and it was so. 
And Sellum the son of Jabis reigned: and in the thirty and ninth year of Azarias king of Juda began Sellum to reign a full month in Samaria. 
And Manaem the son of Gaddi went up out of Tharsila, and came to Samaria, and struck Sellum the son of Jabis in Samaria, and killed him. 
And the rest of the acts of Sellum, and his conspiracy wherein he was engaged, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
Then Manaem struck both Thersa and all that was in it, and its borders extending beyond Thersa, because they opened not to him: and he struck it, and ripped up the women with child. 
In the thirty and ninth year of Azarias king of Juda began Manaem the son of Gaddi to reign over Israel in Samaria ten years. 
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who led Israel to sin. 
In his days went up Phua king of the Assyrians against the land: and Manaem gave to Phua a thousand talents of silver to aid him with his power. 
And Manaem raised the silver by a tax upon Israel, even on every mighty man in wealth, to give to the king of the Assyrians, fifty shekels levied on each man; and the king of the Assyrians departed, and remained not there in the land. 
And the rest of the acts of Manaem, and all that he did, behold, are not these written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
And Manaem slept with his fathers; and Phakesias his son reigned in his stead. 
In the fifties year of Azarias king of Juda, began Phakesias the son of Manaem to reign over Israel in Samaria two years. 
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin. 
And Phakee the son of Romelias, his officer, conspired against him, and struck him in Samaria in the front of the king's house, with Argob and Aria, and with him there were fifty men of the four hundred: and he killed him, and reigned in his stead. 
And the rest of the acts of Phakesias, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
In the fifty-second year of Azarias king of Juda began Phakee the son of Romelias to reign over Israel in Samaria twenty years. 
And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who led Israel to sin. 
In the days of Phakee king of Israel came Thalgath-phellasar king of the Assyrians, and took Ain, and Abel, and Thamaacha, and Anioch, and Kenez, and Asor, and Galaa, and Galilee, even all the land of Nephthali, and carried them away to the Assyrians. 
And Osee son of Ela formed a conspiracy against Phakee the son of Romelias, and struck him, and killed him, and reigned in his stead, in the twentieth year of Joatham the son of Azarias. 
And the rest of the acts of Phakee, and all that he did, behold, these are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
In the second year of Phakee son of Romelias king of Israel began Joatham the son of Azarias king of Juda to reign. 
Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jerusa daughter of Sadoc. 
And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all things that his father Azarias did. 
Nevertheless he took not away the high places: as yet the people sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places. He built the upper gate of the Lord's house. 
And the rest of the acts of Joatham, and all that he did, are not these written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Juda? 
In those days the Lord began to send forth against Juda Raasson king of Syria, and Phakee son of Romelias. 
And Joatham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Achaz his son reigned in his stead. 
