Psalms.
Chapter 103.
(104) A Psalm of David. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great; you have clothed yourself with praise and honour: 
who do robe yourself with light as with a garment; spreading out the heaven as a curtain. 
Who covers his chambers with waters; who makes the clouds his chariot; who walks on the wings of the wind. 
Who makes his angels spirits, and his ministers a flaming fire. 
Who establishes the earth on her sure foundation: it shall not be moved for ever. 
The deep, as it were a garment, is his covering: the waters shall stand on the hills. 
At your rebuke they shall flee; at the voice of your thunder they shall be alarmed. 
They go up to the mountains, and down to the plains, to the place which you have founded for them. 
You have set a bound which they shall not pass, neither shall they turn again to cover the earth. 
He sends forth his fountains amongst the valleys: the waters shall run between the mountains. 
They shall give drink to all the wild beasts of the field: the wild asses shall take of them to quench their thirst. 
By them shall the birds of the sky lodge: they shall utter a voice out of the midst of the rocks. 
He waters the mountains from his chambers: the earth shall be satisfied with the fruit of your works. 
He makes grass to grow for the cattle, and green herb for the service of men, to bring bread out of the earth; 
and wine makes glad the heart of man, to make his face cheerful with oil: and bread strengthens man's heart. 
The trees of the plain shall be full of sap; even the cedars of Libanus which he has planted. 
There the sparrows will build their nests; and the house of the heron takes the lead amongst them. 
The high mountains are a refuge for the stags, and the rock for the rabbits. 
He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knows his going down. 
You did make darkness, and it was night; in it all the wild beasts of the forest will be abroad: 
even young lions roaring for prey, and to seek meat for themselves from God. 
The sun arises, and they shall be gathered together, and shall lie down in their dens. 
Man shall go forth to his work, and to his labour till evening. 
How great are your works, O Lord! in wisdom have you wrought them all: the earth is filled with your creation. 
So is this great and wide sea: there are things creeping innumerable, small animals and great. 
There go the ships; and this dragon whom you have made to play in it. 
All wait upon you, to give them their food in due season. 
When you have given it them, they will gather it; and when you have opened your hand, they shall all be filled with good. 
But when you have turned away your face, they shall be troubled: you will take away their breath, and they shall fail, and return to their dust. 
You shall send forth your Spirit, and they shall be created; and you shall renew the face of the earth. 
Let the glory of the Lord be for ever: the Lord shall rejoice in his works; 
who looks upon the earth, and makes it tremble; who touches the mountains, and they smoke. 
I will sing to the Lord while I live; I will sing praise to my God while I exist. 
Let my meditation be sweet to him: and I will rejoice in the Lord. 
Let the sinners fail from off the earth, and transgressors, so that they shall be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul. 
