Esias.
Chapter 66.
Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool: what kind of a house will you⌃ build me? and of what kind is to be the place of my rest? 
For all these things are mine, says the Lord: and to whom will I have respect, but to the humble and meek, and the man that trembles at my words? 
But the transgressor that sacrifices a calf to me, is as he that kills a dog; and he that offers fine flour, as one that offers swine's blood; he that gives frankincense for a memorial, is as a blasphemer. Yet they have chosen their own ways, and their soul has delighted in their abominations. 
I also will choose their mockeries, and will recompense their sins upon them; because I called them, and they did not listen to me; I spoke, and they heard not: and they did evil before me, and chose the things wherein I delighted not. 
Hear the words of the Lord, you⌃ that tremble at his word; speak you⌃, our brethren, to them that hate you and abominate you, that the name of the Lord may be glorified, and may appear their joy; but they shall be ashamed. 
A voice of a cry from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of the Lord rendering recompence to his adversaries. 
Before she that travailed brought forth, before the travail-pain came on, she escaped it and brought forth a male. 
Who has heard such a thing? and who has seen after this manner? Has the earth travailed in one day? or has even a nation been born at once, that Sion has travailed, and brought forth her children? 
But I have raised this expectation, yet you have not remembered me, says the Lord: behold, have not I made the bearing and barren woman? says your God. 
Rejoice, O Jerusalem, and all you⌃ that love her hold in her a general assembly: rejoice greatly with her, all that now mourn over her: 
that you⌃ may suck, and be satisfied with the breast of her consolation; that you⌃ may milk out, and delight yourselves with the influx of her glory. 
For thus says the Lord, Behold, I turn towards them as a river of peace, and as a torrent bringing upon them in a flood the glory of the Gentiles: their children shall be borne upon the shoulders, and comforted on the knees. 
As if his mother should comfort one, so will I also comfort you; and you⌃ shall be comforted in Jerusalem. 
And you⌃ shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall thrive like grass: and the hand of the Lord shall be known to them that fear him, and he shall threaten the disobedient. 
For, behold, the Lord will come as fire, and his chariots as a storm, to render his vengeance with wrath, and his rebuke with a flame of fire. 
For with the fire of the Lord all the earth shall be judged, and all flesh with his sword: many shall be slain by the Lord. 
They that sanctify themselves and purify themselves in the gardens, and eat swine's flesh in the porches, and the abominations, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, says the Lord. 
And I know their works and their imagination. I am going to gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come, and see my glory. 
And I will leave a sign upon them, and I will send forth them that have escaped of them to the nations, to Tharsis, and Phud, and Lud, and Mosoch, and to Thobel, and to Greece, and to the isles afar off, to those who have not heard my name, nor seen my glory; and they shall declare my glory amongst the Gentiles. 
And they shall bring your brethren out of all nations for a gift to the Lord with horses, and chariots, in litters drawn by mules with awnings, to the holy city Jerusalem, said the Lord, as though the children of Israel should bring their sacrifices to me with psalms into the house of the Lord. 
And I will take of them priests and Levites, says the Lord. 
For as the new heaven and the new earth, which I make, remain before me, says the Lord, so shall your seed and your name continue. 
And it shall come to pass from month to month, and from sabbath to sabbath, that all flesh shall come to worship before me in Jerusalem, says the Lord. 
And they shall go forth, and see the carcasses of the men that have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die, and their fire shall not be quenched; and they shall be a spectacle to all flesh. 
