Kings I.
Chapter 28.
And it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered themselves together with their armies to go out to fight with Israel; and Anchus said to David, Know surely, that you shall go forth to battle with me, you, and your men. 
And David said to Anchus, Thus now you shall know what your servant will do. And Anchus said to David, So will I make you captain of my body-guard continually. 
And Samuel died, and all Israel lamented for him, and they bury him in his city, in Armathaim. And Saul had removed those who had in them divining spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. 
And the Philistines assemble themselves, and come and encamp in Sonam: and Saul gathers all the men of Israel, and they encamp in Gelbue. 
And Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, and he was alarmed, and his heart was greatly dismayed. 
And Saul enquired of the Lord; and the Lord answered him not by dreams, nor by manifestations, nor by prophets. 
Then Saul said to his servants, Seek for me a woman who has in her a divining spirit, and I will go to her, and enquire of her: and his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman who has in her a divining spirit at Aendor. 
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he goes, and two men with him, and they come to the woman by night; and he said to her, Divine to me, I pray you, by the divining spirit within you, and bring up to me him whom I shall name to you. 
And the woman said to him, Behold now, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who had in them divining spirits, and the wizards from the land, and why do you spread a snare for my life to destroy it? 
And Saul swore to her, and said, As the Lord lives, no injury shall come upon you on this account. 
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up to you? and he said, Bring up to me Samuel. 
And the woman saw Samuel, and cried out with a loud voice: and the woman said to Saul, Why have you deceived me? for you are Saul. 
And the king said to her, Fear not; tell me whom you have seen. And the woman said to him, I saw gods ascending out of the earth. 
And he said to her, What did you perceive? and she said to him, An upright man ascending out of the earth, and he was clothed with a mantle. And Saul knew that this was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the earth, and did obeisance to him. 
And Samuel said, Why have you troubled me, that I should come up? And Saul said, I am greatly distressed, and the Philistines war against me, and God has departed from me, and no longer hearkens to me either by the hand of the prophets or by dreams: and now I have called you to tell me what I shall do. 
And Samuel said, Why asked you me, whereas the Lord has departed from you, and taken part with your neighbour? 
And the Lord has done to you, as the Lord spoke by me; and the Lord will rend your kingdom out of your hand, and will give it to your neighbour David. 
because you did not listen to the voice of the Lord, and did not execute his fierce anger upon Amalec, therefore the Lord has done this thing to you this day. 
And the Lord shall deliver Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and to-morrow you and your sons with you shall fall, and the Lord shall deliver the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines. 
And Saul instantly fell at his full length upon the earth, and was greatly afraid because of the words of Samuel; and there was no longer any strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all that day, and all that night. 
And the woman went in to Saul, and saw that he was greatly disquieted, and said to him, Behold now, your handmaid has listened to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have heard the words which you have spoken to me. 
And now listen, I pray you, to the voice of your handmaid, and I will set before you a morsel of bread, and eat, and you shall be strengthened, for you will be going on your way. 
But he would not eat; so his servants and the woman constrained him, and he listened to their voice, and rose up from the earth, and sat upon a bench. 
And the woman had a fat heifer in the house; and she hasted and killed it; and she took meal and kneaded it, and baked unleavened cakes. 
And she brought the meat before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate, and rose up, and departed that night. 
