Chronicles I.
Chapter 25.
And king David and the captains of the host appointed to their services the sons of Asaph, and of Aeman, and of Idithun, prophesiers with harps, and lutes, and cymbals: and their number was according to their polls serving in their ministrations. 
The sons of Asaph; Sacchur, Joseph, and Nathanias, and Erael: the sons of Asaph were next the king. 
To Idithun were reckoned the sons of Idithun, Godolias, and Suri, and Iseas, and Asabias, and Matthathias, six after their father Idithun, sounding loudly on the harp thanksgiving and praise to the Lord. 
To Aeman were reckoned the sons of Aeman, Bukias, and Matthanias, and Oziel, and Subael, and Jerimoth, and Ananias, and Anan, and Heliatha, and Godollathi, and Rometthiezer, and Jesbasaca, and Mallithi, and Otheri, and Meazoth. 
All these were the sons of Aeman the king's chief player in the praises of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Aeman fourteen sons, and three daughters. 
All these sang hymns with their father in the house of God, with cymbals, and lutes, and harps, for the service of the house of God, near the king, and Asaph, and Idithun, and Aeman. 
And the number of them after their brethren, those instructed to sing to God, every one that understood singing was two hundred and eighty-eight. 
And they also cast lots for the daily courses, for the great and the small of them, of the perfect ones and the learners. 
And the first lot of his sons and of his brethren came forth to Asaph the son of Joseph, namely, Godolias: the second Heneia, his sons and his brethren being twelve. 
The third Zacchur, his sons and his brethren were twelve: 
the fourth Jesri, his sons and his brethren were twelve: 
the fifth Nathan, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the sixth Bukias, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the seventh Iseriel, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the eighth Josia, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the ninth Matthanias, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the tenth Semeia, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the eleventh Asriel, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the twelfth Asabia, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the thirteenth Subael, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the fourteenth Matthathias, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the fifteenth Jerimoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the sixteenth Anania, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the seventeenth Jesbasaca, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the eighteenth Ananias, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the nineteenth Mallithi, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the twentieth Heliatha, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the twenty-first Otheri, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the twenty-second Godollathi, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the twenty-third Meazoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
the twenty-fourth Rometthiezer, his sons and his brethren, twelve: 
