Tobit.
Chapter 5.
Tobias then answered and said, Father, I will do all things which you have commanded me: 
But how can I receive the money, seeing I know him not? 
Then he gave him the handwriting, and said to him, Seek you a man which may go with you, while I yet live, and I will give him wages: and go and receive the money. 
Therefore when he went to seek a man, he found Raphael that was an angel. 
But he knew not; and he said to him, Canst you go with me to Rages? and know you those places well? 
To whom the angel said, I will go with you, and I know the way well: for I have lodged with our brother Gabael. 
Then Tobias said to him, Tarry for me, till I tell my father. 
Then he said to him, Go and wait not. So he went in and said to his father, Behold, I have found one which will go with me. Then he said, Call him to me, that I may know of what tribe he is, and whether he be a trusty man to go with you. 
So he called him, and he came in, and they saluted one another. 
Then Tobit said to him, Brother, show me of what tribe and family you are. 
To whom he said, Do you seek for a tribe or family, or an hired man to go with your son? Then Tobit said to him, I would know, brother, your kindred and name. 
Then he said, I am Azarias, the son of Ananias the great, and of your brethren. 
Then Tobit said, You are welcome, brother; be not now angry with me, because I have enquired to know your tribe and your family; for you are my brother, of an honest and good stock: for I know Ananias and Jonathas, sons of that great Samaias, as we went together to Jerusalem to worship, and offered the firstborn, and the tenths of the fruits; and they were not seduced with the error of our brethren: my brother, you are of a good stock. 
But tell me, what wages shall I give you? will you a drachm a day, and things necessary, as to mine own son? 
Yes, moreover, if you⌃ return safe, I will add something to your wages. 
So they were well pleased. Then said he to Tobias, Prepare yourself for the journey, and God send you a good journey. And when his son had prepared all things far the journey, his father said, Go you with this man, and God, which dwells in heaven, prosper your journey, and the angel of God keep you company. So they went forth both, and the young man's dog with them. 
But Anna his mother wept, and said to Tobit, Why have you sent away our son? is he not the staff of our hand, in going in and out before us? 
Be not greedy to add money to money: but let it be as refuse in respect of our child. 
For that which the Lord has given us to live with does suffice us. 
Then said Tobit to her, Take no care, my sister; he shall return in safety, and your eyes shall see him. 
For the good angel will keep him company, and his journey shall be prosperous, and he shall return safe. 
Then she made an end of weeping. 
