Sirach.
Chapter 32.
If you be made the master of a feast, lift not yourself up, but be amongst them as one of the rest; take diligent care for them, and so sit down. 
And when you have done all your office, take your place, that you may be merry with them, and receive a crown for your well ordering of the feast. 
Speak, you that are the elder, for it becomes you, but with sound judgement; and hinder not musick. 
Pour not out words where there is a musician, and show not forth wisdom out of time. 
A concert of musick in a banquet of wine is as a signet of carbuncle set in gold. 
As a signet of an emerald set in a work of gold, so is the melody of musick with pleasant wine. 
Speak, young man, if there be need of you: and yet scarcely when you are twice asked. 
Let your speech be short, comprehending much in few words; be as one that knows and yet holds his tongue. 
If you be amongst great men, make not yourself equal with them; and when ancient men are in place, use not many words. 
Before the thunder goes lightning; and before a shamefaced man shall go favour. 
Rise up betimes, and be not the last; but get you home without delay. 
There take your pastime, and do what you will: but sin not by proud speech. 
And for these things bless him that made you, and has replenished you with his good things. 
Whoso fears the Lord will receive his discipline; and they that seek him early shall find favour. 
He that seeks the law shall be filled therewith: but the hypocrite will be offended thereat. 
They that fear the Lord shall find judgement, and shall kindle justice as a light. 
A sinful man will not be reproved, but finds an excuse according to his will. 
A man of counsel will be considerate; but a strange and proud man is not daunted with fear, even when of himself he has done without counsel. 
Do nothing without advice; and when you have once done, repent not. 
Go not in a way wherein you may fall, and stumble not amongst the stones. 
Be not confident in a plain way. 
And beware of your own children. 
In every good work trust your own soul; for this is the keeping of the commandments. 
He that believes in the Lord takes heed to the commandment; and he that trusts in him shall fare never the worse. 
