Jeremias.
Chapter 10.
Hear you⌃ the word of the Lord, which he has spoken to you, O house of Israel. 
Thus says the Lord, Learn you⌃ not the ways of the heathen, and be not alarmed at the signs of the sky; for they are alarmed at them, falling on their faces. 
For the customs of the nations are vain; it is a tree cut out of the forest, the work of the carpenter, or a molten image. 
They are beautified with silver and gold, they fix them with hammers and nails; 
they will set them up that they may not move; it is wrought silver, they will not walk, it is forged silver They must certainly be borne, for they can’t ride of themselves. Fear them not; for they can’t do any evil, and there is no good in them. 
Thus shall you⌃ say to them, Let the gods which have not made heaven and earth perish from off the earth, and from under this sky. 
It is the Lord that made the earth by his strength, who set up the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the sky, 
and set abundance of waters in the sky, and brought up clouds from the ends of the earth; he made lightnings for the rain, and brought forth light out of his treasures. 
Every man is deprived of knowledge, every goldsmith is confounded because of his graven images; for he has cast false gods, there is no breath in them. 
They are vain works, wrought in mockery; in the time of their visitation they shall perish. 
Such is not the portion of Jacob; for he that formed all things, he is his inheritance; the Lord is his name. 
He has gathered your substance from without the lodged in choice vessels. 
For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will overthrow the inhabitants of this land with affliction, that your plague may be discovered. 
Alas for your ruin! your plague is grievous: and I said, Surely this is your wound, and it has overtaken you. 
Your tabernacle is in a ruinous state, it has perished; and all your curtains have been torn asunder: my children and my cattle are no more: there is no more any place for my tabernacle, nor place for my curtains. 
For the shepherds have become foolish, and have not sought the Lord; therefore the whole pasture has failed, and the sheep have been scattered. 
Behold, there comes a sound of a noise, and a great earthquake from the land of the north, to make the cities of Juda a desolation, and a resting-place for ostriches. 
I know, O Lord, that man's way is not his own; neither shall a man go, and direct his going. 
Chasten us, O Lord, but with judgement; and not in wrath, lest you make us few. 
Pour out your wrath upon the nations that have not known you, and upon the families that have not called upon your name: for they have devoured Jacob, and consumed him, and have made his pasture desolate. 
