Sirach.
Chapter 33.
There shall no evil happen to him that fears the Lord; but in temptation even again he will deliver him. 
A wise man hates not the law; but he that is an hypocrite therein is as a ship in a storm. 
A man of understanding trusts in the law; and the law is faithful to him, as an oracle. 
Prepare what to say, and so you shall be heard: and bind up instruction, and then make answer. 
The heart of the foolish is like a cartwheel; and his thoughts are like a rolling axle tree. 
A stallion horse is as a mocking friend, he neighs under every one that sits upon him. 
Why does one day excel another, when as all the light of every day in the year is of the sun? 
By the knowledge of the Lord they were distinguished: and he altered seasons and feasts. 
Some of them has he made high days, and hallowed them, and some of them has he made ordinary days. 
And all men are from the ground, and Adam was created of earth: 
In much knowledge the Lord has divided them, and made their ways diverse. 
Some of them has he blessed and exalted and some of them he sanctified, and set near himself: but some of them has he cursed and brought low, and turned out of their places. 
As the clay is in the potter's hand, to fashion it at his pleasure: so man is in the hand of him that made him, to render to them as likes him best. 
Good is set against evil, and life against death: so is the godly against the sinner, and the sinner against the godly. 
So look upon all the works of the most High; and there are two and two, one against another. 
I awaked up last of all, as one that gathers after the grape gatherers: by the blessing of the Lord I profited, and filled my winepress like a gatherer of grapes. 
Consider that I laboured not for myself only, but for all them that seek learning. 
Hear me, O you⌃ great men of the people, and listen with your ears, you⌃ rulers of the congregation. 
Give not your son and wife, your brother and friend, power over you while you live, and give not your goods to another: lest it repent you, and you entreat for the same again. 
As long as you live and have breath in you, give not yourself over to any. 
For better it is that your children should seek to you, than that you should stand to their courtesy. 
In all your works keep to yourself the preeminence; leave not a stain in your honour. 
At the time when you shall end your days, and finish your life, distribute your inheritance. 
Fodder, a wand, and burdens, are for the ass; and bread, correction, and work, for a servant. 
If you set your servant to labour, you shall find rest: but if you let him go idle, he shall seek liberty. 
A yoke and a collar do bow the neck: so are tortures and torments for an evil servant. 
Send him to labour, that he be not idle; for idleness teaches much evil. 
Set him to work, as is fit for him: if he be not obedient, put on more heavy fetters. 
But be not excessive towards any; and without discretion do nothing. 
If you have a servant, let him be to you as yourself, because you have bought him with a price. 
If you have a servant, entreat him as a brother: for you have need of him, as of your own soul: if you entreat him evil, and he run from you, which way will you go to seek him? 
