Deuteronomy.
Chapter 16.
Observe the month of new corn, and you shall sacrifice the passover to the Lord your God; because in the month of new corn you came out of Egypt by night. 
And you shall sacrifice the passover to the Lord your God, sheep and oxen in the place which the Lord your God shall choose to have his name called upon it. 
You shall not eat leaven with it; seven days shall you eat unleavened bread with it, bread of affliction, because you⌃ came forth out of Egypt in haste; that you⌃ may remember the day of your coming forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life. 
Leaven shall not be seen with you in all your borders for seven days, and there shall not be left of the flesh which you shall sacrifice at even on the first day until the morning. 
you shall not have power to sacrifice the passover in any of the cities, which the Lord your God gives you. 
But in the place which the Lord your God shall choose, to have his name called there, you shall sacrifice the passover at even at the setting of the sun, at the time when you came out of Egypt. 
And you shall boil and roast and eat it in the place, which the Lord your God shall choose; and you shall return in the morning, and go to your house. 
Six days shall you eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day is a holiday, a feast to the Lord your God: you shall not do in it any work, save what must be done by any one. 
Seven weeks shall you number to yourself; when you have begun to put the sickle to the corn, you shall begin to number seven weeks. 
And you shall keep the feast of weeks to the Lord your God, accordingly as your hand has power in as many things as the Lord your God shall give you. 
And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son, and your daughter, your man-servant and your maidservant, and the Levite, and the stranger, and the orphan, and the widow which dwells amongst you, in whatever place the Lord your God shall choose, that his name should be called there. 
And you shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and you shall observe and do these commands. 
You shall keep for yourself the feast of tabernacles seven days, when you gather in your produce from your corn-floor and your wine-press. 
And you shall rejoice in your feast, you, and your son, and your daughter, your man-servant, and your maidservant, and the Levite, and the stranger, and the orphan, and the widow that is in your cities. 
Seven days shall you keep a feast to the Lord your God in the place which the Lord your God shall choose for himself; and if the Lord your God shall bless you in all your fruits, and in every work of your hands, then you shall rejoice. 
Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord your God in the place which the Lord shall choose in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: you shall not appear before the Lord your God empty. 
Each one according to his ability, according to the blessing of the Lord your God which he has given you. 
You shall make for yourself judges and officers in your cities, which the Lord your God gives you in your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgement: 
they shall not wrest judgement, nor favour persons, nor receive a gift; for gifts blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous. 
You shall justly pursue justice, that you⌃ may live, and go in and inherit the land which the Lord your God gives you. 
You shall not plant for yourself a grove; you shall not plant for yourself any tree near the altar of your God. 
You shall not set up for yourself a pillar, which the Lord your God hates. 
