Genesis.
Chapter 7.
And the Lord God said to Noe, Enter you and all your family into the ark, for you have I seen righteous before me in this generation. 
And of the clean cattle take in to you sevens, male and female, and of the unclean cattle pairs male and female. 
And of clean flying creatures of the sky sevens, male and female, and of all unclean flying creatures pairs, male and female, to maintain seed on all the earth. 
For yet seven days having passed I bring rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will blot out every offspring which I have made from the face of all the earth. 
And Noe did all things whatever the Lord God commanded him. 
And Noe was six hundred years old when the flood of water was upon the earth. 
And then went in Noe and his sons and his wife, and his sons' wives with him into the ark, because of the water of the flood. 
And of clean flying creatures and of unclean flying creatures, and of clean cattle and of unclean cattle, and of all things that creep upon the earth, 
pairs went in to Noe into the ark, male and female, as God commanded Noe. 
And it came to pass after the seven days that the water of the flood came upon the earth. 
In the six hundredth year of the life of Noe, in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, on this day all the fountains of the abyss were broken up, and the flood-gates of heaven were opened. 
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights. 
On that very day entered Noe, Sem, Cham, Japheth, the sons of Noe, and the wife of Noe, and the three wives of his sons with him into the ark. 
And all the wild beasts after their kind, and all cattle after their kind, and every reptile moving itself on the earth after its kind, and every flying bird after its kind, 
went in to Noe into the ark, pairs, male and female of all flesh in which is the breath of life. 
And they that entered went in male and female of all flesh, as God commanded Noe, and the Lord God shut the ark outside of him. 
And the flood was upon the earth forty days and forty nights, and the water abounded greatly and bore up the ark, and it was lifted on high from off the earth. 
And the water prevailed and abounded exceedingly upon the earth, and the ark was borne upon the water. 
And the water prevailed exceedingly upon the earth, and covered all the high mountains which were under heaven. 
Fifteen cubits upwards was the water raised, and it covered all the high mountains. 
And there died all flesh that moved upon the earth, of flying creatures and cattle, and of wild beasts, and every reptile moving upon the earth, and every man. 
And all things which have the breath of life, and whatever was on the dry land, died. 
And God blotted out every offspring which was upon the face of the earth, both man and beast, and reptiles, and birds of the sky, and they were blotted out from the earth, and Noe was left alone, and those with him in the ark. 
And the water was raised over the earth an hundred and fifty days. 
