Michaeas.
Chapter 2.
They meditated troubles, and wrought wickedness on their beds, and they put it in execution with the daylight; for they have not lifted up their hands to God. 
And they desired fields, and plundered orphans, and oppressed families, and spoiled a man and his house, even a man and his inheritance. 
Therefore thus says the Lord; Behold, I devise evils against this family, out of which you⌃ shall not lift up your necks, neither shall you⌃ walk upright speedily: for the time is evil. 
In that day shall a parable be taken up against you, and a plaintive lamentation shall be uttered, saying, We are thoroughly miserable: the portion of my people has been measured out with a line, and there was none to hinder him so as to turn him back; your fields have been divided. 
Therefore you shall have no one to cast a line for the lot. 
Weep not with tears in the assembly of the Lord, neither let any weep for these things; for he shall not remove the reproaches, 
who says, The house of Jacob has provoked the Spirit of the Lord; are not these his practices? Are not the Lord's words right with him? and have they not proceeded correctly? 
Even beforetime my people withstood him as an enemy against his peace; they have stripped off his skin to remove hope in the conflict of war. 
The leaders of my people shall be cast forth from their luxurious houses; they are rejected because of their evil practices; draw you⌃ near to the everlasting mountains. 
Arise you, and depart; for this is not your rest because of uncleanness: you⌃ have been utterly destroyed; 
you⌃ have fled, no one pursuing you: your spirit has framed falsehood, it has dropped on you for wine and strong drink. But it shall come to pass, that out of the dropping of this people, 
Jacob shall be completely gathered with all his people: I will surely receive the remnant of Israel; I will cause them to return together, as sheep in trouble, as a flock in the midst of their fold: they shall rush forth from amongst men through the breach made before them: 
they have broken through, and passed the gate, and gone out by it: and their king has gone out before them, and the Lord shall lead them. 
