Sirach.
Chapter 41.
O death, how bitter is the remembrance of you to a man that lives at rest in his possessions, to the man that has nothing to vex him, and that has prosperity in all things: yes, to him that is yet able to receive meat! 
O death, acceptable is your sentence to the needy, and to him whose strength fails, that is now in the last age, and is vexed with all things, and to him that despairs, and has lost patience! 
Fear not the sentence of death, remember them that have been before you, and that come after; for this is the sentence of the Lord over all flesh. 
And why are you against the pleasure of the most High? there is no inquisition in the grave, whether you have lived ten, or an hundred, or a thousand years. 
The children of sinners are abominable children, and they that are conversant in the dwelling of the ungodly. 
The inheritance of sinners' children shall perish, and their posterity shall have a perpetual reproach. 
The children will complain of an ungodly father, because they shall be reproached for his sake. 
Woe be to you, ungodly men, which have forsaken the law of the most high God! for if you⌃ increase, it shall be to your destruction: 
And if you⌃ be born, you⌃ shall be born to a curse: and if you⌃ die, a curse shall be your portion. 
All that are of the earth shall turn to earth again: so the ungodly shall go from a curse to destruction. 
The mourning of men is about their bodies: but an ill name of sinners shall be blotted out. 
Have regard to your name; for that shall continue with you above a thousand great treasures of gold. 
A good life has but few days: but a good name endures for ever. 
My children, keep discipline in peace: for wisdom that is hid, and a treasure that is not seen, what profit is in them both? 
A man that hides his foolishness is better than a man that hides his wisdom. 
Therefore be shamefaced according to my word: for it is not good to retain all shamefacedness; neither is it altogether approved in every thing. 
Be ashamed of whoredom before father and mother: and of a lie before a prince and a mighty man; 
Of an offence before a judge and ruler; of iniquity before a congregation and people; of unjust dealing before your partner and friend; 
And of theft in regard of the place where you sojourn, and in regard of the truth of God and his covenant; and to lean with your elbow upon the meat; and of scorning to give and take; 
And of silence before them that salute you; and to look upon an harlot; 
And to turn away your face from your kinsman; or to take away a portion or a gift; or to gaze upon another man's wife. 
Or to be overbusy with his maid, and come not near her bed; or of upbraiding speeches before friends; and after you have given, upbraid not; 
