Jeremias.
Chapter 4.
If Israel will return to me, says the Lord, he shall return: and if he will remove his abominations out of his mouth, and fear before me, and swear, 
The Lord lives, with truth, in judgement and righteousness, then shall nations bless by him, and by him they shall praise God in Jerusalem. 
For thus says the Lord to the men of Juda, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Break up fresh ground for yourselves, and sow not amongst thorns. 
Circumcise yourselves to your God, and circumcise your hardness of heart, you⌃ men of Juda, and inhabitants of Jerusalem: lest my wrath go forth as fire, and burn, and there be none to quench it, because of the evil of your devices. 
Declare you⌃ in Juda, and let it be heard in Jerusalem: say you⌃, Sound the trumpet in the land; cry you⌃ aloud: say you⌃, Gather yourselves together, and let us enter into the fortified cities. 
Gather up your wares and flee to Sion: hasten, stay not: for I will bring evils from the north, and great destruction. 
The lion is gone up from his lair, he has roused himself to the destruction of the nations, and has gone forth out of his place, to make the land desolate; and the cities shall be destroyed, so as to be without inhabitant. 
For these things gird yourselves with sackcloth, and lament, and howl: for the anger of the Lord is not turned away from you. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord, that the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the priests shall be amazed, and the prophets shall wonder. 
And I said, O sovereign Lord, verily you have deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, There shall be peace; whereas behold, the sword has reached even to their soul. 
At that time they shall say to this people and to Jerusalem, There is a spirit of error in the wilderness: the way of the daughter of my people is not to purity, nor to holiness. 
But a spirit of full vengeance shall come upon me; and now I declare my judgements against them. 
Behold, he shall come up as a cloud, and his chariots as a tempest: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us! for we are in misery. 
Cleanse your heart from wickedness, O Jerusalem, that you may be saved: how long will your grievous thoughts be within you? 
For a voice of one publishing from Dan shall come, and trouble out of mount Ephraim shall be heard of. 
Remind you⌃ the nations; behold, they are come: proclaim it in Jerusalem, that bands are approaching from a land afar off, and have uttered their voice against the cities of Juda. 
As keepers of a field, they have surrounded her; because you, says the Lord, has neglected me. 
Your ways and your devices have brought these things upon you; this is your wickedness, for it is bitter, for it has reached to your heart. 
I am pained in my bowels, my bowels, and the sensitive powers of my heart; my soul is in great commotion, my heart is torn: I will not be silent, for my soul has heard the sound of a trumpet, the cry of war, and of distress: it calls on destruction; 
for all the land is distressed: suddenly my tabernacle is distressed, my curtains have been tore asunder. 
How long shall I see fugitives, and hear the sound of the trumpet? 
For the princes of my people have not known me, they are foolish and unwise children: they are wise to do evil, but how to do good they have not known. 
I looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was not; and to the sky, an there was no light in it. 
I *saw the mountains, and they trembled, and I saw all the hills in commotion. 
I looked, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the sky were scared. 
I saw, and, behold, Carmel was desert, and all the cities were burnt with fire at the presence of the Lord, and at the presence of his fierce anger they were utterly destroyed. 
Thus says the Lord, The whole land shall be desolate; but I will not make a full end. 
For these things let the earth mourn, and let the sky be dark above: for I have spoken, and I will not repent; I have purposed, and I will not turn back from it. 
The whole land has recoiled from the noise of the horseman and the bent bow; they have gone into the caves, and have hidden themselves in the groves, and have gone up upon the rocks: every city was abandoned, no man lived in them. 
And what will you do? Though you clothe yourself with scarlet, and adorn yourself with golden ornaments; though you adorn your eyes with stibium, your beauty will be in vain: your lovers have rejected you, they seek your life. 
For I have heard your groaning as the voice of a woman in travail, as of her that brings forth her first child; the voice of the daughter of Zion shall fail through weakness, and she shall lose the strength of her hands, saying, Woe is me! for my soul faints because of the slain. 
