Chronicles I.
Chapter 18.
And it came to pass afterwards, that David struck the Philistines, and routed them, and took Geth and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines. 
And he struck Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and tributaries. 
And David struck Adraazar king of Suba of Emath, as he was going to establish power towards the river Euphrates. 
And David took of them a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand infantry: and David houghed all the chariot horses, but there were reserved of them a hundred chariots. 
And the Syrian came from Damascus to help Adraazar king of Suba; and David struck of the Syrian army twenty and two thousand men. 
And David put a garrison in Syria near Damascus; and they became tributary servants to David: and the Lord delivered David wherever he went. 
And David took the golden collars that were on the servants of Adraazar, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
And David took out of Matabeth, and out of the chief cities of Adraazar very much brass: of this Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the brazen vessels. 
And Thoa king of Emath heard that David had struck the whole force of Adraazar king of Suba. 
And he sent Aduram his son to king David to ask how he was, and to congratulate him because he had fought against Adraazar, and struck him; for Thoa was the enemy of Adraazar. 
And all the golden and silver and brazen vessels, even these king David consecrated to the Lord, with the silver and the gold which he took from all the nations; from Idumaea, and Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalec. 
And Abesa son of Saruia struck the Idumeans in the valley of Salt, eighteen thousand. 
And he put garrisons in the valley; and all the Idumaeans became David's servants: and the Lord delivered David wherever he went. 
So David reigned over all Israel; and he executed judgement and justice to all his people. 
And Joab the son of Saruia was over the army, and Josaphat the son of Achilud was recorder. 
And Sadoc son of Achitob, and Achimelech son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Susa was the scribe; 
and Banaeas the son of Jodae was over the Cherethite and the Phelethite, and the sons of David were the chief deputies of the king. 
