NAUM.
Chapter 1.
The burden of Nineve: the book of the vision of Naum the Elkesite. 
God is jealous, and the Lord avenges; the Lord avenges with wrath; the Lord takes vengeance on his adversaries, and he cuts off his enemies. 
The Lord is longsuffering, and his power is great, and the Lord will not hold any guiltless: his way is in destruction and in the whirlwind, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. 
He threatens the sea, and dries it up, and exhausts all the rivers: the land of Basan, and Carmel are brought low, and the flourishing trees of Libanus have come to nothing. 
The mountains quake at him, and the hills are shaken, and the earth recoils at his presence, even the world, and all that dwell in it. 
Who shall stand before his anger? and who shall withstand in the anger of his wrath? his wrath brings to nothing kingdoms, and the rocks are burst asunder by him. 
The Lord is good to them that wait on him in the day of affliction; and he knows them that reverence him. 
But with an overrunning flood he will make an utter end: darkness shall pursue those that rise up against him and his enemies. 
What do you⌃ devise against the Lord? he will make a complete end: he will not take vengeance by affliction twice at the same time. 
For the enemy shall be laid bare even to the foundation, and shall be devoured as twisted yew, and as stubble fully dry. 
Out of you shall proceed a device against the Lord, counselling evil things hostile to him. 
Thus says the Lord who rules over many waters, Even thus shall they be sent away, and the report of you shall not be heard any more. 
And now will I break his rod from off you, and will burst your bonds. 
And the Lord shall give a command concerning you; there shall no more of your name be scattered: I will utterly destroy the graven images out of the house of your god, and the molten images: I will make your grave; for they are swift. 
Behold upon the mountains the feet of him that brings glad tidings, and publishes peace! O Juda, keep your feasts, pay your vows: for they shall no more pass through you to your decay. 
