Song of Songs.
Chapter 5.
Let my kinsman come down into his garden, and eat the fruit of his choice berries. I am come into my garden, my sister, my spouse: I have gathered my myrrh with my spices; I have eaten my bread with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends, and drink; yes, brethren, drink abundantly. 
I sleep, but my heart is awake: the voice of my kinsman knocks at the door, saying, Open, open to me, my companion, my sister, my dove, my perfect one: for my head is filled with dew, and my locks with the drops of the night. 
I have put off my coat; how shall I put it on? I have washed my feet, how shall I defile them? 
My kinsman put forth his hand by the hole of the door, and my belly moved for him. 
I rose up to open to my kinsman; my hands dropped myrrh, my fingers choice myrrh, on the handles of the lock. 
I opened to my kinsman; my kinsman was gone: my soul failed at his speech: I sought him, but found him not; I called him, but he answered me not. 
The watchman that go their rounds in the city found me, they struck me, they wounded me; the keepers of the walls took away my veil from me. 
I have charged you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the powers and the virtues of the field: if you⌃ should find my kinsman, what are you⌃ to say to him? That I am wounded with love. 
What is your kinsman more than another kinsman, O you beautiful amongst women? what is your kinsman more than another kinsman, that you have so charged us? 
My kinsman is white and ruddy, chosen out from myriads. 
His head is as very fine gold, his locks are flowing, black as a raven. 
His eyes are as doves, by the pools of waters, washed with milk, sitting by the pools. 
His cheeks are as bowls of spices pouring forth perfumes: his lips are lilies, dropping choice myrrh. 
His hands are as turned gold set with beryl: his belly is an ivory tablet on a sapphire stone. 
His legs are marble pillars set on golden sockets: his form is as Libanus, choice as the cedars. 
His throat is most sweet, and altogether desirable. This is my kinsman, and this is my companion, O daughters of Jerusalem. 
Whither is your kinsman gone, you beautiful amongst women? whither has your kinsman turned aside? tell us, and we will seek him with you. 
