Genesis.
Chapter 22.
And it came to pass after these things that God tempted Abraam, and said to him, Abraam, Abraam; and he said, Behold! I am here. 
And he said, Take your son, the beloved one, whom you have loved—Isaac, and go into the high land, and offer him there for a whole burnt offering on one of the mountains which I will tell you of. 
And Abraam rose up in the morning and saddled his ass, and he took with him two servants, and Isaac his son, and having split wood for a whole burnt offering, he arose and departed, and came to the place of which God spoke to him, 
on the third day; and Abraam having lifted up his eyes, saw the place afar off. 
And Abraam said to his servants, Sit you⌃ here with the ass, and I and the lad will proceed thus far, and having worshipped we will return to you. 
And Abraam took the wood of the whole burnt offering, and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took into his hands both the fire and the knife, and the two went together. 
And Isaac said to Abraam his father, Father. And he said, What is it, son? And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, where is the sheep for a whole burnt offering? 
And Abraam said, God will provide himself a sheep for a whole burnt offering, my son. And both having gone together, 
came to the place which God spoke of to him; and there Abraam built the altar, and laid the wood on it, and having bound the feet of Isaac his son together, he laid him on the altar upon the wood. 
And Abraam stretched forth his hand to take the knife to kill his son. 
And an angel of the Lord called him out of heaven, and said, Abraam, Abraam. And he said, Behold, I am here. 
And he said, Lay not your hand upon the child, neither do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, and for my sake you have not spared your beloved son. 
And Abraam lifted up his eyes and *saw, and behold! a ram caught by his horns in a plant of Sabec; and Abraam went and took the ram, and offered him up for a whole burnt offering in the place of Isaac his son. 
And Abraam called the name of that place, The Lord has seen; that they might say today, In the mount the Lord was seen. 
And an angel of the Lord called Abraam the second time out of heaven, saying, I have sworn by myself, says the Lord, because you have done this thing, and on my account have not spared your beloved son, 
surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is by the shore of the sea, and your seed shall inherit the cities of their enemies. 
And in your seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have listened to my voice. 
And Abraam returned to his servants, and they arose and went together to the well of the oath; and Abraam lived at the well of the oath. 
And it came to pass after these things, that it was reported to Abraam, saying, Behold, Melcha herself too has born sons to Nachor your brother, 
Uz the firstborn, and Baux his brother, and Camuel the father of the Syrians, and Chazad, and 
Azav and Phaldes, and Jeldaph, and Bathuel, and Bathuel begot Rebecca; 
these are eight sons, which Melcha bore to Nachor the brother of Abraam. 
And his concubine whose name was Rheuma, she also bore Tabec, and Taam, and Tochos, and Mocha. 
