Exodus.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharao; for he shall send them forth with a mighty hand, and with a high arm shall he cast them out of his land. 
And God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. 
And I appeared to Abraam and Isaac and Jacob, being their God, but I did not manifest to them my name Lord. 
And I established my covenant with them, to give them the land of the Chananites, the land wherein they sojourned, in which also they lived as strangers. 
And I listened to the groaning of the children of Israel (the affliction with which the Egyptians enslave them) and I remembered the covenant with you. 
Go, speak to the children of Israel, saying, I am the Lord; and I will lead you forth from the tyranny of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from bondage, and I will ransom you with a high arm, and great judgement. 
And I will take you to me a people for myself, and will be your God; and you⌃ shall know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from the tyranny of the Egyptians. 
And I will bring you into the land concerning which I stretched out my hand to give it to Abraam and Isaac and Jacob, and I will give it you for an inheritance: I am the Lord. 
And Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel, and they listened not to Moses for faint-heartedness, and for their hard tasks. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Go in, speak to Pharao king of Egypt, that he send forth the children of Israel out of his land. 
And Moses spoke before the Lord, saying, Behold, the children of Israel listened not to me, and how shall Pharao listen to me? and I am not eloquent. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and gave them a charge to Pharao king of Egypt, that he should send forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
And these are the heads of the houses of their families: the sons of Ruben the firstborn of Israel; Enoch and Phallus, Asron, and Charmi, this is the kindred of Ruben. 
And the sons of Symeon, Jemuel and Jamin, and Aod, and Jachin and Saar, and Saul the son of a Phoenician woman, these are the families of the sons of Symeon. 
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their kindred, Gedson, Caath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were a hundred and thirty-seven. 
And these are the sons of Gedson, Lobeni and Semei, the houses of their family. And the sons of Caath, 
Ambram and Issaar, Chebron, and Oziel; and the years of the life of Caath were a hundred and thirty-three years. 
And the sons of Merari, Mooli, and Omusi, these are the houses of the families of Levi, according to their kindred. 
And Ambram took as wife Jochabed the daughter of his father's brother, and she bore to him both Aaron and Moses, and Mariam their sister: and the years of the life of Ambram were a hundred and thirty-two years. 
And the sons of Issaar, Core, and Naphec, and Zechri. 
And the sons of Oziel, Misael, and Elisaphan, and Segri. 
And Aaron took to himself to wife Elisabeth daughter of Aminadab sister of Naasson, and she bore to him both Nadab and Abiud, and Eleazar and Ithamar. 
And the sons of Core, Asir, and Elkana, and Abiasar, these are the generations of Core. 
And Eleazar the son of Aaron took to himself for a wife one of the daughters of Phutiel, and she bore to him Phinees. These are the heads of the family of the Levites, according to their generations. 
This is Aaron and Moses, whom God told to bring out the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt with their forces. 
These are they that spoke with Pharao king of Egypt, and Aaron himself and Moses brought out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt, 
in the day in which the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt; 
then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, I am the Lord: speak to Pharao king of Egypt whatever I say to you. 
And Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am not able in speech, and how shall Pharao listen to me? 
