Jezekiel.
Chapter 25.
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, set your face steadfastly against the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them; 
and you shall say to the children of Ammon, Hear you⌃ the word of the Lord; thus says the Lord; Forasmuch as you⌃ have rejoiced against my sanctuary, because it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, because it was laid waste; and against the house of Juda, because they went into captivity; 
therefore, behold, I will deliver you to the children of Kedem for an inheritance, and they shall lodge in you with their stuff, and they shall pitch their tents in you: they shall eat your fruits, and they shall drink your milk. 
And I will give up the city of Ammon for camels' pastures, and the children of Ammon for a pasture of sheep: and you⌃ shall know that I am the Lord. 
For thus says the Lord; Because you have clapped your hands, and stamped with your foot, and heartily rejoiced against the land of Israel; 
therefore I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will make you a spoil to the nations; and I will utterly destroy you from amongst the peoples, and I will completely cut you off from out of the countries: and you shall know that I am the Lord. 
Thus says the Lord; Because Moab has said, Behold, are not the house of Israel and Juda like all the other nations? 
Therefore, behold, I will weaken the shoulder of Moab from his frontier cities, even the choice land, the house of Bethasimuth above the fountain of the city, by the sea-side. 
I have given him the children of Kedem in addition to the children of Ammon for an inheritance, that there may be no remembrance of the children of Ammon. 
And I will execute vengeance on Moab; and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
Thus says the Lord; Because of what the Idumeans have done in taking vengeance on the house of Juda, and because they have remembered injuries, and have exacted full recompense; 
therefore thus says the Lord; I will also stretch out my hand upon Idumea, and will utterly destroy out of it man and beast; and will make it desolate; and they that are pursued out of Thaeman shall fall by the sword. 
And I will execute my vengeance on Idumea by the hand of my people Israel: and they shall deal in Idumea according to mine anger and according to my wrath, and they shall know my vengeance, says the Lord. 
Therefore thus says the Lord, Because the Philistines have wrought revengefully, and raised up vengeance rejoicing from their heart to destroy the Israelites to a man; 
therefore thus says the Lord; Behold, I will stretch out my hand upon the Philistines, and will utterly destroy the Cretans, and will cut off the remnant that dwell by the sea-coast. 
And I will execute great vengeance upon them; and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I have brought my vengeance upon them. 
