Psalms.
Chapter 108.
(109) For the end, a Psalm of David. For the end, a Psalm of David. O God, pass not over my praise in silence; 
for the mouth of the sinner and the mouth of the crafty man have been opened against me: they have spoken against me with a crafty tongue. 
And they have compassed me with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause. 
Instead of loving me, they falsely accused me: but I continued to pray. 
And they rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 
Set you a sinner against him; and let the devil stand at his right hand. 
When he is judged, let him go forth condemned: and let his prayer become sin. 
Let his days be few: and let another take his office of overseer. 
Let his children be orphans, and his wife a widow. 
Let his children wander without a dwelling-place, and beg: let them be cast out of their habitations. 
Let his creditor exact all that belongs to him: and let strangers spoil his labours. 
Let him have no helper; neither let there be any one to have compassion on his fatherless children. 
Let his children be given up to utter destruction: in one generation let his name be blotted out. 
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
Let them be before the Lord continually; and let their memorial be blotted out from the earth. 
Because he remembered not to show mercy, but persecuted the needy and poor man, and that to kill him that was pricked in the heart. 
He loved cursing also, and it shall come upon him; and he took not pleasure in blessing, so it shall be removed far from him. 
Yes, he put on cursing as a garment, and it is come as water into his bowels, and as oil into his bones. 
Let it be to him as a garment which he puts on, and as a girdle with which he girds himself continually. 
This is the dealing of the Lord with those who falsely accuse me, and of them that speak evil against my soul. 
But you, O Lord, Lord, deal mercifully with me, for your name's sake: for your mercy is good. 
Deliver me, for I am poor and needy; and my heart is troubled within me. 
I am removed as a shadow in its going down: I am tossed up and down like locusts. 
My knees are weakened through fasting, and my flesh is changed by reason of the lack of oil. 
I became also a reproach to them: when they saw me they shook their heads. 
Help me, O Lord my God; and save me according to your mercy. 
And let them know that this is your hand; and that you, Lord, have wrought it. 
Let them curse, but you shall bless: let them that rise up against me be ashamed, but let your servant rejoice. 
Let those that falsely accuse me be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their shame as with a mantle. 
I will give thanks to the Lord abundantly with my mouth; and in the midst of many I will praise him. 
For he stood on the right hand of the poor, to save me from them that persecute my soul. 
