Jeremias.
Chapter 12.
Righteous are you, O Lord, that I may make my defence to you, yes, I will speak to you of judgements. Why is it that the way of ungodly men prospers? that all that deal very treacherously are flourishing? 
You have planted them, and they have taken root; they have begotten children, and become fruitful; you are near to their mouth, and far from their reins. 
But you, Lord, know me; you have proved my heart before you; purify them for the day of their slaughter. 
How long shall the land mourn, and the grass of the field wither, for the wickedness of them, that dwell in it? the beasts and birds are utterly destroyed; because the people said, God shall not see our ways. 
Your feet run, and they cause you to faint; how will you prepare to ride upon horses? and you have been confident in the land of your peace? how will you do in the roaring of Jordan? 
For even your brethren and the house of your father, even these have dealt treacherously with you; and they have cried out, they are gathered together in pursuit of you; trust not you in them, though they shall speak fair words to you. 
I have forsaken mine house, I have left mine heritage; I have given my beloved one into the hands of her enemies. 
My inheritance has become to me as a lion in a forest; she has uttered her voice against me; therefore have I hated her. 
Is not my inheritance to me a hyaena's cave, or a cave round about her? Go you⌃, gather together all the wild beasts of the field, and let them come to devour her. 
Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard, they have defiled my portion, they have made my desirable portion a trackless wilderness; 
it is made a complete ruin: for my sake the whole land has been utterly ruined, because there is none that lays the matter to heart. 
The ravagers are come to every passage in the wilderness: for the sword of the Lord will devour from one end of the land to the other: no flesh has any peace. 
Sow wheat, and reap thorns; their portions shall not profit them: be ashamed of your boasting, because of reproach before the Lord. 
For thus says the Lord, concerning all the evil neighbours that touch mine inheritance, which I have divided to my people Israel; Behold, I will draw them away from their land, and I will cast out Juda from the midst of them. 
And it shall come to pass, after I have cast them out, that I will return, and have mercy upon them, and will cause them to dwell every one in his inheritance, and every one in his land. 
And it shall be, if they will indeed learn the way of my people, to swear by my name, saying, The Lord lives; as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall that nation be built in the midst of my people. 
But if they will not return, then will I cut off that nation with utter ruin and destruction. 
