AMBACUM.
Chapter 1.
The burden which the prophet Ambacum saw. 
How long, O Lord, shall I cry out, and you will not listen? how long shall I cry out to you being injured, and you will not save? 
Therefore have you shown me troubles and griefs to look upon, misery and ungodliness? judgement is before me, and the judge receives a reward. 
Therefore the law is frustrated, and judgement proceeds not effectually, for the ungodly man prevails over the just; therefore perverse judgement will proceed. 
Behold, you⌃ despisers, and look, and wonder marvellously, and vanish: for I work a work in your days, which you⌃ will in no wise believe, though a man declare it to you. 
Therefore, behold, I stir up the Chaldeans, the bitter and hasty nation, that walks upon the breadth of the earth, to inherit tabernacles not his own. 
He is terrible and famous; his judgement shall proceed of himself, and his dignity shall come out of himself. 
And his horses shall bound more swiftly than leopards, and they are fiercer than the wolves of Arabia: and his horsemen shall ride forth, and shall rush from far; and they shall fly as an eagle hasting to eat. 
Destruction shall come upon ungodly men, resisting with their adverse front, and he shall gather the captivity as the sand. 
And he shall be at his ease with kings, and princes are his toys, and he shall mock at every strong-hold, and shall cast a mound, and take possession of it. 
Then shall he change his spirit, and he shall pass through, and make an atonement, saying, This strength belongs to my god. 
Are not you from the beginning, O Lord God, my Holy One? and surely we shall not die. O Lord, you have established it for judgement, and he has formed me to chasten with his correction. 
His eye is too pure to behold evil doings, and to look upon grievous afflictions: therefore do you look upon despisers? will you be silent when the ungodly swallows up the just? 
And will you make men as the fishes of the sea, and as the reptiles which have no guide? 
He has brought up destruction with a hook, and drawn one with a casting net, and caught another in his drags: therefore shall his heart rejoice and be glad. 
Therefore will he sacrifice to his drag, and burn incense to his casting-net, because by them he has made his portion fat, and his meats choice. 
Therefore will he cast his net, and will not spare to kill the nations continually. 
