Proverbs.
Chapter 15.
Anger slays even wise men; yet a submissive answer turns away wrath: but a grievous word stirs up anger. 
The tongue of the wise knows what is good: but the mouth of the foolish tells out evil things. 
The eyes of the Lord behold both the evil and the good in every place. 
The wholesome tongue is a tree of life, and he that keeps it shall be filled with understanding. 
A fool scorns his father's instruction; but he that keeps his commandments is more prudent. In abounding righteousness is great strength: but the ungodly shall utterly perish from the earth. 
In the houses of the righteous is much strength: but the fruits of the ungodly shall perish. 
The lips of the wise are bound by discretion: but the hearts of the foolish are not safe. 
The sacrifices of the ungodly are an abomination to the Lord; but the prayers of them that walk honestly are acceptable with him. 
The ways of an ungodly man are an abomination to the Lord; but he loves those that follow after righteousness. 
The instruction of the simple is known by them that pass by; but they that hate reproofs die disgracefully. 
Hell and destruction are manifest to the Lord; how shall not also be the hearts of men? 
An uninstructed person will not love those that reprove him; neither will he associate with the wise. 
When the heart rejoices the countenance is cheerful; but when it is in sorrow, the countenance is sad. 
An upright heart seeks discretion; but the mouth of the uninstructed will experience evils. 
The eyes of the wicked are always looking for evil things; but the good are always quiet. 
Better is a small portion with the fear of the Lord, than great treasures without the fear of the Lord. 
Better is an entertainment of herbs with friendliness and kindness, than a feast of calves, with enmity. 
A passionate man stirs up strife; but he that is slow to anger appeases even a rising one. A man slow to anger will extinguish quarrels; but an ungodly man rather stirs them up. 
The ways of sluggards are strewn with thorns; but those of the diligent are made smooth. 
A wise son gladdens his father; but a foolish son sneers at his mother. 
The ways of a foolish man are void of sense; but a wise man proceeds on his way aright. 
They that honour not councils put off deliberation; but counsel abides in the hearts of counsellors. 
A bad man will by no means attend to counsel; neither will he say anything seasonable, or good for the common weal. 
The thoughts of the wise are ways of life, that he may turn aside and escape from hell. 
The Lord pulls down the houses of scorners; but he establishes the border of the widow. 
An unrighteous thought is abomination to the Lord; but the sayings of the pure are held in honour. 
A receiver of bribes destroys himself; but he that hates the receiving of bribes is safe. By alms and by faithful dealings sins are purged away; but by the fear of the Lord every one departs from evil. 
The hearts of the righteous meditate faithfulness; but the mouth of the ungodly answers evil things. The ways of righteous men are acceptable with the Lord; and through them even enemies become friends. 
God is far from the ungodly; but he hearkens to the prayers of the righteous. Better are small receipts with righteousness, than abundant fruits with unrighteousness. Let the heart of a man think justly, that his steps may be rightly ordered of God. The eye that sees rightly rejoices the heart; and a good report fattens the bones. 
He that rejects instruction hates himself; but he that mind reproofs loves his soul. 
The fear of the Lord is instruction and wisdom; and the highest honour will correspond therewith. 
