Sirach.
Chapter 37.
Every friend says, I am his friend also: but there is a friend, which is only a friend in name. 
Is it not a grief to death, when a companion and friend is turned to an enemy? 
O wicked imagination, whence came you in to cover the earth with deceit? 
There is a companion, which rejoices in the prosperity of a friend, but in the time of trouble will be against him. 
There is a companion, which helps his friend for the belly, and takes up the buckler against the enemy. 
Forget not your friend in your mind, and be not unmindful of him in your riches. 
Every counsellor extols counsel; but there is some that counsels for himself. 
Beware of a counsellor, and know before what need he has; for he will counsel for himself; lest he cast the lot upon you, 
And say to you, Your way is good: and afterward he stand on the other side, to see what shall befall you. 
Consult not with one that suspects you: and hide your counsel from such as envy you. 
Neither consult with a woman touching her of whom she is jealous; neither with a coward in matters of war; nor with a merchant concerning exchange; nor with a buyer of selling; nor with an envious man of thankfulness; nor with an unmerciful man touching kindness; nor with the slothful for any work; nor with an hireling for a year of finishing work; nor with an idle servant of much business: listen not to these in any matter of counsel. 
But be continually with a godly man, whom you know to keep the commandments of the Lord, whose, mind is according to your mind, and will sorrow with you, if you shall miscarry. 
And let the counsel of your own heart stand: for there is no man more faithful to you than it. 
For a man's mind is sometime wont to tell him more than seven watchmen, that sit above in an high tower. 
And above all this pray to the most High, that he will direct your way in truth. 
Let reason go before every enterprise, and counsel before every action. 
The countenance is a sign of changing of the heart. 
Four manner of things appear: good and evil, life and death: but the tongue rules over them continually. 
There is one that is wise and teaches many, and yet is unprofitable to himself. 
There is one that shows wisdom in words, and is hated: he shall be destitute of all food. 
For grace is not given, him from the Lord, because he is deprived of all wisdom. 
Another is wise to himself; and the fruits of understanding are commendable in his mouth. 
A wise man instructs his people; and the fruits of his understanding fail not. 
A wise man shall be filled with blessing; and all they that see him shall count him happy. 
The days of the life of man may be numbered: but the days of Israel are innumerable. 
A wise man shall inherit glory amongst his people, and his name shall be perpetual. 
My son, prove your soul in your life, and see what is evil for it, and give not that to it. 
For all things are not profitable for all men, neither has every soul pleasure in every thing. 
Be not unsatiable in any dainty thing, nor too greedy upon meats: 
For excess of meats brings sickness, and surfeiting will turn into choler. 
By surfeiting have many perished; but he that takes heed prolongs his life. 
