Esias.
Chapter 52.
Awake, awake, Sion; put on your strength, O Sion; and o you put on your glory, Jerusalem the holy city: there shall no more pass through you, the uncircumcised and unclean. 
Shake off the dust and arise; sit down, Jerusalem: put off the band of your neck, captive daughter of Sion. 
For thus says the Lord, You⌃ have been sold for nothing; and you⌃ shall not be ransomed with silver. 
Thus says the Lord, My people went down before to Egypt to sojourn there; and were carried away forcibly to the Assyrians. 
And now why are you⌃ here? Thus says the Lord, Because my people was taken for nothing, wonder you⌃ and howl. Thus says the Lord, On account of you my name is continually blasphemed amongst the Gentiles. 
Therefore shall my people know my name in that day, for I am he that speaks: I am present, 
as a season of beauty upon the mountains, as the feet of one preaching glad tidings of peace, as one preaching good news: for I will publish your salvation, saying, O Sion, your God shall reign. 
For the voice of them that guard you is exalted, and with the voice together they shall rejoice: for eyes shall look to eyes, when the Lord shall have mercy upon Sion. 
Let the waste places of Jerusalem break forth in joy together, because the Lord has had mercy upon her, and has delivered Jerusalem. 
And the Lord shall reveal his holy arm in the sight of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation that comes from our God. 
Depart you⌃, depart, go out from thence, and touch not the unclean thing; go you⌃ out from the midst of her; separate yourselves, you⌃ that bear the vessels of the Lord. 
For you⌃ shall not go forth with tumult, neither go by flight: for the Lord shall go first in advance of you; and the God of Israel shall be he that brings up your rear. 
Behold, my servant shall understand, and be exalted, and glorified exceedingly. 
As many shall be amazed at you, so shall your face be without glory from men, and your glory shall not be honoured by the sons of men. 
Thus shall many nations wonder at him; and kings shall keep their mouths shut: for they to whom no report was brought concerning him, shall see; and they who have not heard, shall consider. 
