Exodus.
Chapter 36.
And Beseleel wrought, and Eliab and every one wise in understanding, to whom was given wisdom and knowledge, to understand to do all the works according to the holy offices, according to all things which the Lord appointed. 
And Moses called Beseleel and Eliab, and all that had wisdom, to whom God gave knowledge in their heart, and all who were freely willing to come forward to the works, to perform them. 
And they received from Moses all the offerings, which the children of Israel brought for all the works of the sanctuary to do them; and they continued to receive the gifts brought, from those who brought them in the morning. 
And there came all the wise men who wrought the works of the sanctuary, each according to his own work, which they wrought. 
And one said to Moses, The people bring an abundance too great in proportion to all the works which the Lord has appointed them to do. 
And Moses commanded, and proclaimed in the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman any longer labour for the offerings of the sanctuary; and the people were restrained from bringing any more. 
And they had materials sufficient for making the furniture, and they left some besides. 
And every wise one amongst those that wrought made the robes of the holy places, which belong to Aaron the priest, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
And he made the ephod of gold, and blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined. 
And the plates were divided, the threads of gold, so as to interweave with the blue and purple, and with the spun scarlet, and the fine linen twined, they made it a woven work; 
shoulder-pieces joined from both sides, a work woven by mutual twisting of the parts into one another. 
They made it of the same material according to the making of it, of gold, and blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined, as the Lord commanded Moses; 
and they made the two emerald stones clasped together and set in gold, graven and cut after the cutting of a seal with the names of the children of Israel; 
and he put them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod, as stones of memorial of the children of Israel, as the Lord appointed Moses. 
And they made the oracle, a work woven with embroidery, according to the work of the ephod, of gold, and blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined. 
They made the oracle square and double, the length of a span, and the breadth of a span, —double. 
And there was interwoven with it a woven work of four rows of stones, a series of stones, the first row, a sardius and topaz and emerald; 
and the second row, a carbuncle and sapphire and jasper; 
and the third row, a ligure and agate and amethyst; 
and the fourth row a chrysolite and beryl and onyx set round about with gold, and fastened with gold. 
And the stones were twelve according to the names of the children of Israel, graven according to their names like seals, each according to his own name for the twelve tribes. 
And they made on the oracle turned wreaths, wreathen work, of pure gold, 
and they made two golden circlets and two golden rings. 
And they put the two golden rings on both the upper corners of the oracle; 
and they put the golden wreaths on the rings on both sides of the oracle, and the two wreaths into the two couplings. 
And they put them on the two circlets, and they put them on the shoulders of the ephod opposite each other in front. 
And they made two golden rings, and put them on the two projections on the top of the oracle, and on the top of the hinder part of the ephod within. 
And they made two golden rings, and put them on both the shoulders of the ephod under it, in front by the coupling above the connexion of the ephod. 
And he fastened the oracle by the rings that were on it to the rings of the ephod, which were fastened with a string of blue, joined together with the woven work of the ephod; that the oracle should not be loosed from the ephod, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
And they made the tunic under the ephod, woven work, all of blue. 
And the opening of the tunic in the midst woven closely together, the opening having a fringe round about, that it might not be tore. 
And they made on the border of the tunic below pomegranates as of a flowering pomegranate tree, of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined. 
And they made golden bells, and put the bells on the border of the tunic round about between the pomegranates: 
a golden bell and a pomegranate on the border of the tunic round about, for the ministration, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
And they made vestments of fine linen, a woven work, for Aaron and his sons, 
and the tires of fine linen, and the mitre of fine linen, and the drawers of fine linen twined; 
and their girdles of fine linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet spun, the work of an embroiderer, according as the Lord commanded Moses. 
And they made the golden plate, a dedicated thing of the sanctuary, of pure gold; 
and he wrote upon it graven letters as of a seal, Holiness to the Lord. 
And they put it on the border of blue, so that it should be on the mitre above, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
