Kings IV.
Chapter 22.
Josias was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty and one years in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Jedia, daughter of Edeia of Basuroth. 
And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the way of David his father; he turned not aside to the right hand or to the left. 
And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josias, in the eighth month, the king sent Sapphan the son of Ezelias the son of Mesollam, the scribe of the house of the Lord, saying, 
Go up to Chelcias the high priest, and take account of the money that is brought into the house of the Lord, which they that keep the door have collected of the people. 
And let them give it into the hand of the workmen that are appointed in the house of the Lord. And he gave it to the workmen in the house of the Lord, to repair the breaches of the house, 
even to the carpenters, and builders, and masons, and also to purchase timber and hewn stones, to repair the breaches of the house. 
Only they did not call them to account for the money that was given to them, because they dealt faithfully. 
And Chelcias the high priest said to Saphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Chelcias gave the book to Sapphan, and he read it. 
And he went into the house of the Lord to the king, and reported the matter to the king, and said, Your servants have collected the money that was found in the house of the Lord, and have given it into the hand of the workmen that are appointed in the house of the Lord. 
And Sapphan the scribe spoke to the king, saying, Chelcias the priest has given me a book. And Sapphan read it before the king. 
And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the book of the law, that he tore his garments. 
And the king commanded Chelcias the priest, and Achikam the son of Sapphan, and Achobor the son of Michaias, and Sapphan the scribe, and Asaias the king's servant, saying, 
Go, enquire of the Lord for me, and for all the people, and for all Juda, and concerning the words of this book that has been found: for the wrath of the Lord that has been kindled against us is great, because our fathers listened not to the words of this book, to do according to all the things written concerning us. 
So Chelcias the priest went, and Achicam, and Achobor, and Sapphan, and Asaias, to Olda the prophetess, the mother of Sellem the son of Thecuan son of Aras, keeper of the robes; and she lived in Jerusalem in Masena; and they spoke to her. 
And she said to them, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, Say to the man that sent you to me, 
Thus says the Lord, Behold, I bring evil upon this place, and upon them that dwell in it, even all the words of the book which the king of Juda has read: 
because they have forsaken me, and burnt incense to other gods, that they might provoke me with the works of their hands: therefore my wrath shall burn forth against this place, and shall not be quenched. 
And to the king of Juda that sent you to enquire of the Lord, —thus shall you⌃ say to him, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, As for the words which you have heard; 
because your heart was softened, and you was humbled before me, when you heard all that I spoke against this place, and against the inhabitants of it, that it should be utterly destroyed and accursed, and you did rend your garments, and weep before me; I also have heard, says the Lord. 
It shall not be so therefore: behold, I will add you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your tomb in peace, and your eyes shall not see any amongst all the evils which I bring upon this place. 
