Numbers.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
speak to the children of Israel, and you shall say to them, Whatsoever man or woman shall specially vow a vow to separate oneself with purity to the Lord, 
he shall purely abstain from wine and strong drink; and he shall drink no vinegar of wine or vinegar of strong drink; and whatever is made of the grape he shall not drink; neither shall he eat fresh grapes or raisins, 
all the days of his vow: he shall eat no one of all the things that come from the vine, wine from the grape-stones to the husk, 
all the days of his separation:—a razor shall not come upon his head, until the days be fulfilled which he vowed to the Lord: he shall be holy, cherishing the long hair of the head, 
all the days of his vow to the Lord: he shall not come near to any dead body, 
to his father or his mother, or to his brother or his sister; he shall not defile himself for them, when they have died, because the vow of God is upon him on his head. 
All the days of his vow he shall be holy to the Lord. 
And if any one should die suddenly by him, immediately the head of his vow shall be defiled; and he shall shave his head in whatever day he shall be purified: on the seventh day he shall be shaved. 
And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, to the priest, to the doors of the tabernacle of witness. 
And the priest shall offer one for a sin-offering; and the other for a whole burnt offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him in the things wherein he sinned respecting the dead body, and he shall sanctify his head in that day, 
in which he was consecrated to the Lord, all the days of his vow; and he shall bring a lamb of a year old for a trespass-offering; and the former days shall not be reckoned, because the head of his vow was polluted. 
And this is the law of him that has vowed: in whatever day he shall have fulfilled the days of his vow, he shall himself bring his gift to the doors of the tabernacle of witness. 
And he shall bring his gift to the Lord; one he-lamb of a year old without blemish for a whole burnt offering, and one ewe-lamb of a year old without blemish for a sin-offering, and one ram without blemish for a peace-offering; 
and a basket of unleavened bread of fine flour, even loaves kneaded with oil, and unleavened cakes anointed with oil, and their meat-offering, and their drink-offering. 
And the priest shall bring them before the Lord, and shall offer his sin-offering, and his whole burnt offering. 
And he shall offer the ram as a sacrifice of peace-offering to the Lord with the basket of unleavened bread; and the priest shall offer its meat-offering and its drink-offering. 
And he that has vowed shall shave the head of his consecration by the doors of the tabernacle of witness, and shall put the hairs on the fire which is under the sacrifice of peace-offering. 
And the priest shall take the sodden shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened loaf from the basket, and one unleavened cake, and shall put them on the hands of the votary after he has shaved off his 
And the priest shall present them as an offering before the Lord; it shall be the holy portion for the priest beside the breast of the heave-offering and beside the shoulder of the wave-offering: and afterwards the votary shall drink wine. 
This is the law of the votary who shall have vowed to the Lord his gift to the Lord, concerning his vow, besides what he may be able to afford according to the value of his vow, which he may have vowed according to the law of separation. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, Thus you⌃ shall bless the children of Israel, saying to them, 
The Lord bless you and keep you; 
the Lord make his face to shine upon you, and have mercy upon you; 
the Lord lift up his countenance upon you, and give you peace. 
And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel, and I the Lord will bless them. 
