Jezekiel.
Chapter 38.
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, set your face against Gog, and the land of Magog, Rhos, prince of Mesoch and Thobel, and prophesy against him, 
and say to him, Thus says the Lord God; Behold, I am against you, Rhos prince of Mesoch and Thobel: 
and I will gather you, and all your host, horses and horsemen, all wearing breastplates, with a great multitude, shields and helmets and swords: 
Persians, and Ethiopians, and Libyans; all with helmets and shields. 
Gomer, and all belonging to him; the house of Thorgama, from the end of the north, and all belonging to him; and many nations with you. 
Be you prepared, prepare yourself, you, and all your multitude that is assembled with you, and you shall be to me for a guard. 
He shall be prepared after many days, and he shall come at the end of years, and shall come to a land that is brought back from the sword, when the people are gathered from many nations against the land of Israel, which was entirely desolate: and he is come forth out of the nations, and they shall all dwell securely. 
And you shall go up as rain, and shall arrive as a cloud to cover the land, and there shall be you, and all that are about you, and many nations with you. 
Thus says the Lord God; It shall also come to pass in that day, that thoughts shall come up into your heart, and you shall devise evil devices. 
And you shall say, I will go up to the rejected land; I will come upon them that are at ease in tranquillity, and dwelling in peace, all inhabiting a land in which there is no wall, nor bars, nor have they doors; 
to seize plunder, and to take their spoil; to turn my hands against the desolate land that is now inhabited, and against a nation that is gathered from many nations, that have acquired property, dwelling in the midst of the land. 
Sabba, and Daedan, and Carthaginian merchants, and all their villages shall say to you, You are come for plunder to take a prey, and to get spoils: you have gathered your multitude to take silver and gold, to carry off property, to take spoils. 
Therefore prophesy, son of man, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord; Will you not arise in that day, when my people Israel are dwelling securely, 
and come out of your place from the farthest north, and many nations with you? all of them mounted on horses, a great gathering, and a large force? 
And you shall come up upon my people Israel as a cloud to cover the land; it shall come to pass in the last days, that I will bring you up upon my land, that all the nations may know me, when I am sanctified in you before them. 
Thus says the Lord God, to Gog; You are he concerning whom I spoke in former times, by the hand of my servants the prophets of Israel, in those days and years, that I would bring you up against them. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, in the day when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, says the Lord God, 
that my wrath and my jealousy shall arise, I have spoken in the fire of mine anger, verily in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel; 
and the fish of the sea shall quake at the presence of the Lord, and the birds of the sky and the wild beasts of the field, and all the reptiles that creep upon the earth, and all the men that are on the face of the earth; and the mountains shall be tore, and the valleys shall fall, and every wall on the land shall fall. 
And I will summon against it even every fear, says the Lord: the sword of every man shall be against his brother. 
And I will judge him with pestilence, and blood, and sweeping rain, and hailstones; and I will rain upon him fire and brimstone, and upon all that are with him, and upon many nations with him. 
And I will be magnified, and sanctified, and glorified; and I will be known in the presence of many nations, and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
