Chronicles II.
Chapter 5.
And Solomon brought in the holy things of his father David, the silver, and the gold, and the other vessels, and put them in the treasury of the house of the Lord. 
Then Solomon assembled all the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, even the leaders of the families of the children of Israel, to Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the city of David, —this is Sion. 
And all Israel were assembled to the king in the feast, this is the seventh month. 
And all the elders of Israel came; and all the Levites took up the ark, 
and the tabernacle of witness, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle; and the priests and the Levites brought it up. 
And king Solomon, and all the elders of Israel, and the religious of them, and they of them that were gathered before the ark, were sacrificing calves and sheep, which could not be numbered or reckoned for multitude. 
And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord into its place, into the oracle of the house, even into the holy of holies, under the wings of the cherubs. 
And the cherubs stretched out their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubs covered the ark, and its staves above. 
And the staves projected, and the heads of the staves were seen from the holy place in front of the oracle, they were not seen without: and there they were to this day. 
There was nothing in the ark except the two tables which Moses placed there in Choreb, which God gave in covenant with the children of Israel, when they went out of the land of Egypt. 
And it came to pass, when the priests when out of the holy place, (for all the priests that were found were sanctified, they were not then arranged according to their daily course,) 
that all the singing Levites assigned to the sons of Asaph, to Aeman, to Idithun, and to his sons, and to his brethren, of them that were clothed in linen garments, with cymbals and lutes and harps, were standing before the altar, and with them a hundred and twenty priests, blowing trumpets. 
And there was one voice in the trumpeting and in the psalm-singing, and in the loud utterance with one voice to give thanks and praise the Lord; and when they raised their voice together with trumpets and cymbals, and instruments of music, and said, Give thanks to the Lord, for it is good, for his mercy endures for ever:—then the house was filled with the cloud of the glory of the Lord. 
And the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud: for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God. 
