WISDOM.
Chapter 1.
Love righteousness, you⌃ that be judges of the earth: think of the Lord with a good (heart,) and in simplicity of heart seek him. 
For he will be found of them that tempt him not; and shows himself to such as do not distrust him. 
For froward thoughts separate from God: and his power, when it is tried, reproves the unwise. 
For into a malicious soul wisdom shall not enter; nor dwell in the body that is subject to sin. 
For the holy spirit of discipline will flee deceit, and remove from thoughts that are without understanding, and will not abide when unrighteousness comes in. 
For wisdom is a loving spirit; and will not acquit a blasphemer of his words: for God is witness of his reins, and a true beholder of his heart, and a hearer of his tongue. 
For the Spirit of the Lord fills the world: and that which contains all things has knowledge of the voice. 
Therefore he that speaks unrighteous things can’t be hid: neither shall vengeance, when it punishes, pass by him. 
For inquisition shall be made into the counsels of the ungodly: and the sound of his words shall come to the Lord for the manifestation of his wicked deeds. 
For the ear of jealousy hears all things: and the noise of murmurings is not hid. 
Therefore beware of murmuring, which is unprofitable; and refrain your tongue from backbiting: for there is no word so secret, that shall go for nothing: and the mouth that belies slays the soul. 
Seek not death in the error of your life: and pull not upon yourselves destruction with the works of your hands. 
For God made not death: neither has he pleasure in the destruction of the living. 
For he created all things, that they might have their being: and the generations of the world were healthful; and there is no poison of destruction in them, nor the kingdom of death upon the earth: 
(For righteousness is immortal:) 
But ungodly men with their works and words called it to them: for when they thought to have it their friend, they consumed to nothing, and made a covenant with it, because they are worthy to take part with it. 
