Psalms.
Chapter 39.
(40) For the end, a Psalm of David. I waited patiently for the Lord; and he attended to me, and listened to my supplication. 
And he brought me up out of a pit of misery, and from miry clay: and he set my feet on a rock, and ordered my goings aright. 
And he put a new song into my mouth, even a hymn to our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall hope in the Lord. 
Blessed is the man whose hope is in the name of the Lord, and who has not regarded vanities and false frenzies. 
O Lord my God, you have multiplied your wonderful works, and in your thoughts there is none who shall be likened to you: I declared and spoke of them: they exceeded number. 
Sacrifice and offering you would not; but a body have you prepared me: whole burnt offering and sacrifice for sin you did not require. 
Then I said, Behold, I come: in the volume of the book it is written concerning me, 
I desired to do your will, O my God, and your law in the midst of mine heart. 
I have preached righteousness in the great congregation; behold! I will not refrain my lips; O Lord, you know my righteousness. 
I have not hid your truth within my heart, and I have declared your salvation; I have not hid your mercy and your truth from the great congregation. 
But you, Lord, remove not your compassion far from me; your mercy and your truth have helped me continually. 
For innumerable evils have encompassed me; my transgressions have taken hold of me, and I could not see; they are multiplied more than the hairs of my head; and my heart has failed me. 
Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, draw near to help me. 
Let those that seek my soul, to destroy it, be ashamed and confounded together; let those that wish me evil be turned backward and put to shame. 
Let those that say to me, Aha, aha, quickly receive shame for their reward. 
Let all those that seek you, O Lord, exult and rejoice in you; and let them that love your salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. 
But I am poor and needy; the Lord will take care of me; you are my helper, and my defender, O my God, delay not. 
