Deuteronomy.
Chapter 5.
And Moses called all Israel, and said to them, Hear, Israel, the ordinances and judgements, all that I speak in your ears this day, and you⌃ shall learn them, and observe to do them. 
The Lord your God made a covenant with you in Choreb. 
The Lord did not make this covenant with your fathers, but with you: you⌃ are all here alive this day. 
The Lord spoke to you face to face in the mountain out of the midst of the fire. 
And I stood between the Lord and you at that time to report to you the words of the Lord, (because you⌃ were afraid before the fire, and you⌃ went not up to the mountain) saying, 
I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
You shall have no other gods before my face. 
You shall not make to yourself an image, nor likeness of any thing, whatever things are in the heaven above, and whatever are in the earth beneath, and whatever are in the waters under the earth. 
You shall not bow down to them, nor shall you serve them; for I am the Lord your God, a jealous God, visiting the sins of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation to them that hate me, 
and doing mercifully to thousands of them that love me, and that keep my commandments. 
You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord your God will certainly not acquit him that takes his name in vain. 
Keep the sabbath day to sanctify it, as the Lord your God commanded you. 
Six days you shall work, and you shall do all your works; 
but on the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord your God: you shall do in it no work, you, and your son, and your daughter, your man-servant, and your maidservant, your ox, and your ass, and all your cattle, and the stranger that sojourns in the midst of you; that your man-servant may rest, and your maid, and your ox, as well as you. 
And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out thence with a mighty hand, and a high arm: therefore the Lord appointed you to keep the sabbath day and to sanctify it. 
Honour your father and your mother, as the Lord your God commanded you; that it may be well with you, and that you may live long upon the land, which the Lord your God gives you. 
You shall not commit murder. 
You shall not commit adultery. 
You shall not steal. 
You shall not bear false witness against your neighbour. 
You shall not covet your neighbour's wife; you shall not covet your neighbour's house, nor his field, nor his man-servant, nor his maid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any beast of his, nor any thing that is your neighbour's. 
These words the Lord spoke to all the assembly of you in the mountain out of the midst of the fire—there was darkness, blackness, storm, a loud voice—and he added no more, and he wrote them on two tables of stone, and he gave them to me. 
And it came to pass when you⌃ heard the voice out of the midst of the fire, for the mountain burnt with fire, that you⌃ came to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders: 
and you⌃ said, Behold, the Lord our God has shown us his glory, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire: this day we have seen that God shall speak to man, and he shall live. 
And now let us not die, for this great fire will consume us, if we shall hear the voice of the Lord our God any more, and we shall die. 
For what flesh is there which has heard the voice of the living God, speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have heard, and shall live? 
Do you draw near, and hear all that the Lord our God shall say, and you shall speak to us all things whatever the Lord our God shall speak to you, and we will hear, and do. 
And the Lord heard the voice of your words as you⌃ spoke to me; and the Lord said to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, even all things that they have said to you. They have well said all that they have spoken. 
O that there were such a heart in them, that they should fear me and keep my commands always, that it might be well with them and with their sons for ever. 
Go, say to them, Return you⌃ to your houses; 
but stand you here with me, and I will tell you all the commands, and the ordinances, and the judgements, which you shall teach them, and let them do so in the land which I give them for an inheritance. 
And you⌃ shall take heed to do as the Lord your God commanded you; you⌃ shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left, 
according to all the way which the Lord your God commanded you to walk in it, that he may give you rest; and that it may be well with you, and you⌃ may prolong your days on the land which you⌃ shall inherit. 
