Sirach.
Chapter 7.
Do no evil, so shall no harm come to you. 
Depart from the unjust, and iniquity shall turn away from you. 
My son, sow not upon the furrows of unrighteousness, and you shall not reap them sevenfold. 
Seek not of the Lord preeminence, neither of the king the seat of honour. 
justify not yourself before the Lord; and boast not of your wisdom before the king. 
Seek not to be judge, being not able to take away iniquity; lest at any time you fear the person of the mighty, an stumbling block in the way of your uprightness. 
Offend not against the multitude of a city, and then you shall not cast yourself down amongst the people. 
Bind not one sin upon another; for in one you shall not be unpunished. 
Say not, God will look upon the multitude of my oblations, and when I offer to the most high God, he will accept it. 
Be not faint-hearted when you make your prayer, and neglect not to give alms. 
Laugh no man to scorn in the bitterness of his soul: for there is one which humbles and exalts. 
Devise not a lie against your brother; neither do the like to your friend. 
Use not to make any manner of lie: for the custom thereof is not good. 
Use not many words in a multitude of elders, and make not much babbling when you pray. 
Hate not laborious work, neither husbandry, which the most High has ordained. 
Number not yourself amongst the multitude of sinners, but remember that wrath will not wait long. 
Humble yourself greatly: for the vengeance of the ungodly is fire and worms. 
Change not a friend for any good by no means; neither a faithful brother for the gold of Ophir. 
Forego not a wise and good woman: for her grace is above gold. 
Whereas your servant works truly, entreat him not evil. nor the hireling that gives himself wholly for you. 
Let your soul love a good servant, and defraud him not of liberty. 
Hast you cattle? have an eye to them: and if they be for your profit, keep them with you. 
Hast you children? instruct them, and bow down their neck from their youth. 
Hast you daughters? have a care of their body, and show not yourself cheerful towards them. 
Marry your daughter, and so shall you have performed a weighty matter: but give her to a man of understanding. 
Hast you a wife after your mind? forsake her not: but give not yourself over to a light woman. 
Honour your father with your whole heart, and forget not the sorrows of your mother. 
Remember that you were begotten of them; and how can you recompense them the things that they have done for you? 
Fear the Lord with all your soul, and reverence his priests. 
Love him that made you with all your strength, and forsake not his ministers. 
Fear the Lord, and honour the priest; and give him his portion, as it is commanded you; the first fruits, and the trespass offering, and the gift of the shoulders, and the sacrifice of sanctification, and the first fruits of the holy things. 
And stretch your hand to the poor, that your blessing may be perfected. 
A gift has grace in the sight of every man living; and for the dead detain it not. 
Fail not to be with them that weep, and mourn with them that mourn. 
Be not slow to visit the sick: fir that shall make you to be beloved. 
Whatsoever you take in hand, remember the end, and you shall never do amiss. 
