Chronicles II.
Chapter 14.
And Abia died with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In the days of Asa the land of Juda had rest ten years. 
And he did that which was good and right in the sight of the Lord his God. 
And he removed the altars of the strange gods, and the high places, and broke the pillars in pieces, and cut down the groves: 
and he told Juda to seek earnestly the Lord God of their fathers, and to perform the law and commandments. 
And he removed from all the cities of Juda the altars and the idols, and established in quietness 
fortified cities in the land of Juda; for the land was quiet, and he had no war in these years; for the Lord gave him rest. 
And he said to Juda, Let us fortify these cities, and make walls, and towers, and gates, and bars: we shall prevail over the land, for as we have sought out the Lord our God, he has sought out us, and has given us rest round about, and prospered us. 
And Asa had a force of armed men bearing shields and spears in the land of Juda, even three hundred thousand, and in the land of Benjamin two hundred and eighty thousand targeteers and archers: all these were mighty warriors. 
And Zare the Ethiopian went out against them, with a force of a million, and three hundred chariots; and came to Maresa. 
And Asa went out to meet him, and set the battle in array in the valley north of Maresa. 
And Asa cried to the Lord his God, and said, O Lord, it is not impossible with you to save by many or by few: strengthen us, O Lord our God; for we trust in you, and in your name have we come against this great multitude. O Lord our God, let not man prevail against you. 
And the Lord struck the Ethiopians before Juda; and the Ethiopians fled. 
And Asa and his people pursued them to Gedor; and the Ethiopians fell, so that they could not recover themselves; for they were crushed before the Lord, and before his host; and they took many spoils. 
And they destroyed their towns roundabout Gedor; for a terror of the Lord was upon them: and they spoiled all their cities, for they had much spoil. 
Also they destroyed the tents of cattle, and the Alimazons, and took many sheep and camels, and returned to Jerusalem. 
