Job.
Chapter 16.
But Job answered and said, 
I have heard many such things: poor comforters are you⌃ all. 
What! is there any reason in vain words? or what will hinder you from answering? 
I also will speak as you⌃ do: if indeed your soul were in my soul's stead, 
then would I insult you with words, and I would shake my head at you. 
And would there were strength in my mouth, and I would not spare the movement of my lips. 
For if I should speak, I shall not feel the pain of my wound: and if I should be silent, how shall I be wounded the less? 
But now he has made me weary, and a worn-out fool; and you have laid hold of me. 
My falsehood has become a testimony, and has risen up against me: it has confronted me to my face. 
In his anger he has cast me down; he has gnashed his teeth upon me: the weapons of his robbers have fallen upon me. 
He has attacked me with the keen glances of his eyes; with his sharp spear he has struck me down upon my knees; and they have run upon me with one accord. 
For the Lord has delivered me into the hands of unrighteous men, and thrown me upon the ungodly. 
When I was at peace he distracted me: he took me by the hair of the head, and plucked it out: he set me up as a mark. 
They surrounded me with spears, aiming at my reins: without sparing me they poured out my gall upon the ground. 
They overthrew me with fall upon fall: they ran upon me in their might. 
They sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and my strength has been spent on the ground. 
My belly has been parched with wailing, and darkness is on my eyelids. 
Yet there was no injustice in my hands, and my prayer is pure. 
Earth, cover not over the blood of my flesh, and let my cry have no place. 
And now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my advocate is on high. 
Let my supplication come to the Lord, and let mine eye weep before him. 
Oh that a man might plead before the Lord, even as the son of man with his neighbour! 
But my years are numbered and their end come, and I shall go by the way by which I shall not return. 
