Proverbs.
Chapter 11.
False balances are an abomination before the Lord: but a just weight is acceptable to him. 
Wherever pride enters, there will be also disgrace: but the mouth of the lowly meditates wisdom. 
When a just man dies he leaves regret: but the destruction of the ungodly is speedy, and causes joy. 
Possessions will not profit in a day of wrath, but righteousness will deliver from death.  
Righteousness traces out blameless paths: but ungodliness encounters unjust dealing. 
The righteousness of upright men delivers them: but transgressors are caught in their own destruction. 
At the death of a just man his hope does not perish: but the boast of the ungodly perishes. 
A righteous man escapes from a snare, and the ungodly man is delivered up in his place. 
In the mouth of ungodly men is a snare to citizens: but the understanding of righteous men is prosperous. 
In the prosperity of righteous men a city prospers: but by the mouth of ungodly men it is overthrown. 
At the blessing of the upright a city shall be exalted.  
A man void of understanding sneers at his fellow citizens: but a sensible man is quiet. 
A double-tongued man discloses the secret counsels of an assembly: but he that is faithful in spirit conceals matters. 
They that have no guidance fall like leaves: but in much counsel there is safety. 
A bad man does harm wherever he meets a just man: and he hates the sound of safety. 
A gracious wife brings glory to her husband: but a woman hating righteousness is a theme of dishonour. The slothful come to lack: but the diligent support themselves with wealth. 
A merciful man does good to his own soul: but the merciless destroys his own body. 
An ungodly man performs unrighteous works: but the seed of the righteous is a reward of truth. 
A righteous son is born for life: but the persecution of the ungodly ends in death. 
Perverse ways are an abomination to the Lord: but all they that are blameless in their ways are acceptable to him. 
He that unjustly strikes hands shall not be unpunished: but he that sows righteousness he shall receive a faithful reward. 
As an ornament in a swine's snout, so is beauty to an ill-minded women. 
All the desire of the righteous is good: but the hope of the ungodly shall perish. 
There are some who scatter their own, and make it more: and there are some also who gather, yet have less. 
Every sincere soul is blessed: but a passionate man is not graceful. 
May he that hoards corn leave it to the nation: but blessing be on the head of him that gives it. 
He that devises good counsels seeks good favour: but as for him that seeks after evil, evil shall overtake him. 
He that trusts in wealth shall fall; but he that helps righteous men shall rise. 
He that deals not graciously with his own house shall inherit the wind; and the fool shall be servant to the wise man. 
Out of the fruit of righteousness grows a tree of life; but the souls of transgressors are cut off before their time. 
If the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? 
