Kings II.
Chapter 8.
And it came to pass after this, that David struck the Philistines, and put them to flight, and David took the tribute from out of the hand of the Philistines. 
And David struck Moab, and measured them out with lines, having laid them down on the ground: and there were two lines for slaying, and two lines he kept alive: and Moab became servants to David, yielding tribute. 
And David struck Adraazar the son of Raab king of Suba, as he went to extend his power to the river Euphrates. 
And David took a thousand of his chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all his chariot horses, and he reserved to himself a hundred chariots. 
And Syria of Damascus comes to help Adraazar king of Suba, and David struck twenty-two thousand men belonging to the Syrian. 
And David placed a garrison in Syria near Damascus, and the Syrians became servants and tributaries to David: and the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 
And David took the golden bracelets which were on the servants of Adraazar king of Suba, and brought them to Jerusalem. And Susakim king of Egypt took them, when he went up to Jerusalem in the days of Roboam son of Solomon. 
And king David took from Metebac, and from the choice cities of Adraazar, very much brass: with that Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the lavers, and all the furniture. 
And You the king of Hemath heard that David had struck all the host of Adraazar. 
And You sent Jedduram his son to king David, to ask him of his welfare, and to congratulate him on his fighting against Adraazar and striking him, for he was an enemy to Adraazar: and in his hands were vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass. 
And these king David consecrated to the Lord, with the silver and with the gold which he consecrated out of all the cities which he conquered, 
out of Idumea, and out of Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalec, and from the spoils of Adraazar son of Raab king of Suba. 
And David made himself a name: and when he returned he struck Idumea in Gebelem to the number of eighteen thousand. 
And he set garrisons in Idumea, even in all Idumea: and all the Idumeans were servants to the king. And the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 
And David reigned over all Israel: and David wrought judgement and justice over all his people. 
And Joab the son of Saruia was over the host; and Josaphat the son of Achilud was keeper of the records. 
And Sadoc the son of Achitob, and Achimelech son of Abiathar, were priests; and Sasa was the scribe, 
and Banaeas son of Jodae was councillor, and the Chelethite and the Phelethite, and the sons of David, were princes of the court. 
