Chronicles I.
Chapter 29.
And David the king said to all the congregation, Solomon my son, whom the Lord has chosen, is young and tender, and the work is great; for it is not for man, but for the Lord God. 
I have prepared according to all my might for the house of my God gold, silver, brass, iron, wood, onyx stones, and costly and variegated stones for setting, and every precious stone, and much Parian marble. 
And still farther, because I took pleasure in the house of my God, I have gold and silver which I have procured for myself, and, behold, I have given them to the house of my God over and above, beyond what I have prepared for the holy house. 
Three thousand talents of gold of Suphir, and seven thousand talents of fine silver, for the overlaying of the walls of the sanctuary: 
for you to use the gold for things of gold, and the silver for things of silver, and for every work by the hand of the artificers. And who is willing to dedicate himself in work this day for the Lord? 
Then the heads of families, and the princes of the children of Israel, and the captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, and the overseers of the works, and the king's builders, offered willingly. 
And they gave for the works of the house of the Lord five thousand talents of gold, and ten thousand gold pieces, and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of brass, and a hundred thousand talents of iron. 
And they who had precious stone, gave it into the treasuries of the house of the Lord by the hand of Jeiel the Gedsonite. 
And the people rejoiced because of the willingness, for they offered willingly to the Lord with a full heart: and king David rejoiced greatly. 
And king David blessed the Lord before the congregation, saying, Blessed are you, O Lord God of Israel, our Father, from everlasting and to everlasting. 
Your, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the might: for you are Lord of all things that are in heaven and upon the earth: before your face every king and nation is troubled. 
From you come wealth and glory: you, O Lord, rule over all, the Lord of all dominion, and in your hand is strength and rule; and you are almighty with your hand to increase and establish all things. 
And now, Lord, we give thanks to you, and praise your glorious name. 
But who am I, and what is my people, that we have been able to be thus forward in offering to you? for all things are your, and of your own have we given you, 
for we are strangers before you, and sojourners, as all our fathers were: our days upon the earth are as a shadow, and there is no remaining. 
O Lord our God, as for all this abundance which I have prepared that a house should be built to your holy name, it is of your hand, and all is your. 
And I know, Lord, that you are he that searches the hearts, and you love righteousness. I have willingly offered all these things in simplicity of heart; and now I have seen with joy your people here present, willingly offering to you. 
O Lord God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, preserve these things in the thought of the heart of your people for ever, and direct their hearts to you. 
And to Solomon my son give a good heart, to perform your commandments, and to observe your testimonies, and your ordinances, and to accomplish the building of your house. 
And David said to the whole congregation, Bless you⌃ the Lord our God. And all the congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and they bowed the knee and worshipped the Lord, and did obeisance to the king. 
And David sacrificed to the Lord, and offered up whole burnt offerings to the Lord on the morrow after the first day, a thousand calves, a thousand rams, a thousand lambs, and their drink-offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 
And they ate and drank joyfully that day before the Lord: and they made Solomon the son of David king a second time, and anointed him king before the Lord, and Sadoc to the priesthood. 
And Solomon sat upon the throne of his father David, and was highly honoured; and all Israel obeyed him. 
The princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons of king David his father, were subject to him. 
And the Lord magnified Solomon over all Israel, and gave him royal glory, such as was not upon any king before him. 
And David the son of Jessae reigned over Israel forty years; 
seven years in Chebron, and thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
And he died in a good old age, full of days, in wealth, and glory: and Solomon his son reigned in his stead. 
And the rest of the acts of David, the former and the latter, are written in the history of Samuel the seer, and in the history of Nathan the prophet, and in the history of Gad the seer, 
concerning all his reign, and his power, and the times which went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the earth. 
