Zacharias.
Chapter 10.
Ask you⌃ of the Lord rain in season, the early and the latter: the Lord has given bright signs, and will give them abundant rain, to every one grass in the field. 
For the speakers have uttered grievous things, and the diviners have  seen false visions, and they have spoken false dreams, they have given vain comfort: therefore have they fallen away like sheep, and been afflicted, because there was no healing. 
Mine anger was kindled against the shepherds, and I will visit the lambs; and the Lord God Almighty shall visit his flock, the house of Juda, and he shall make them as his goodly horse in war. 
And from him he looked, and from him he set the battle in order, and from him came the bow in anger, and from him shall come forth every oppressor together. 
And they shall be as warriors treading clay in the ways in war; and they shall set the battle in array, because the Lord is with them, and the riders on horses shall be put to shame. 
And I will strengthen the house of Juda, and save the house of Joseph, and I will settle them; because I have loved them: and they shall be as if I had not cast them off: for I am the Lord their God, and I will hear them. 
And they shall be as the warriors of Ephraim, and their heart shall rejoice as with wine: and their children also shall see it, and be glad; and their heart shall rejoice in the Lord. 
I will make a sign to them, and gather them in; for I will redeem them, and they shall be multiplied according to their number before. 
And I will sow them amongst the people; and they that are afar off shall remember me: they shall nourish their children, and they shall return. 
And I will bring them again from the land of Egypt, and I will gather them in from amongst the Assyrians; and I will bring them into the land of Galaad and to Libanus; and there shall not even one of them be left behind. 
And they shall pass through a narrow sea, they shall strike the waves in the sea, and all the deep places of the rivers shall be dried up: and all the pride of the Assyrians shall be taken away, and the sceptre of Egypt shall be removed. 
And I will strengthen them in the Lord their God; and they shall boast in his name, says the Lord. 
