Jeremias.
Chapter 33.
IN THE BEGINNING OF THE REIGN OF KING JOAKIM SON OF JOSIAS THERE CAME THIS WORD FROM THE LORD. 
Thus said the Lord; Stand in the court of the Lord's house, and you shall declare to all the Jews, and to all that come to worship in the house of the Lord, all the words which I commanded you to speak to them; abate not one word. 
Peradventure they will hear, and turn every one from his evil way: then I will cease from the evils which I purpose to do to them, because of their evil practices. 
And you shall say, Thus said the Lord; If you⌃ will not listen to me, to walk in my statutes which I set before you, 
to listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I send to you early in the morning; yes, I sent them, but you⌃ listened not to me; 
then will I make this house as Selo, and I will make this city a curse to all the nations of all the earth. 
And the priests, and the false prophets, and all the people heard Jeremias speaking these words in the house of the Lord. 
And it came to pass, when Jeremias had ceased speaking all that the Lord had ordered him to speak to all the people, that the priests and the false prophets and all the people took him, saying, 
You shall surely die, because you have prophesied in the name of the Lord, saying, This house shall be as Selo, and this city shall be made quite destitute of inhabitants. And all the people assembled against Jeremias in the house of the Lord. 
And the princes of Juda heard this word, and they went up out of the house of the king to the house of the Lord, and sat in the entrance of the new gate. 
Then the priests and the false prophets said to the princes and to all the people, The judgement of death is due to this man; because he has prophesied against this city, as you⌃ have heard with your ears. 
Then Jeremias spoke to the princes, and to all the people, saying, The Lord sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city, all the words which you⌃ have heard. 
And now amend your ways and your works, and listen to the voice of the Lord; and the Lord shall cease from the evils which he has pronounced against you. 
And behold, I am in your hands; do to me as is expedient, and as it is best for you. 
But know for a certainty, that if you⌃ kill me, you⌃ bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city, and upon them that dwell in it; for in truth the Lord has sent me to you to speak in your ears all these words. 
Then the princes and all the people said to the priests and to the false prophets; Judgement of death is not due to this man; for he has spoken to us in the name of the Lord our God. 
And there rose up men of the elders of the land, and said to all the assembly of the people, 
Michaeas the Morathite lived in the days of Ezekias king of Juda, and said to all the people of Juda, Thus says the Lord; Sion shall be ploughed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become a desolation, and the mountain of the house shall be a thicket of trees. 
Did Ezekias and all Juda in any way kill him? Was it not that they feared the Lord, and they made supplication before the Lord, and the Lord ceased from the evils which he had pronounced against them? whereas we have wrought great evil against our own souls. 
And there was another man prophesying in the name of the Lord, Urias the son of Samaeas of Cariathiarim; and he prophesied concerning this land according to all the words of Jeremias. 
And king Joakim and all the princes heard all his words, and sought to kill him; and Urias heard it and went into Egypt. 
And the king sent men into Egypt; 
and they brought him thence, and brought him into the king; and he struck him with the sword, and cast him into the sepulchre of the children of his people. 
Nevertheless the hand of Achicam son of Saphan was with Jeremias, to prevent his being delivered into the hands of the people, or being killed. 
