RUTH.
Chapter 1.
And it came to pass when the judges ruled, that there was a famine in the land: and a man went from Bethleem Juda to sojourn in the land of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons. 
And the man's name was Elimelech, and his wife's name Noemin, and the names of his two sons Maalon and Chelaion, Ephrathites of Bethleem of Juda: and they came to the land of Moab, and remained there. 
And Elimelech the husband of Noemin died; and she was left, and her two sons. 
And they took to themselves wives, women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpha, and the name of the second Ruth; and they lived there about ten years. 
And both Maalon and Chelaion died also; and the woman was left of her husband and her two sons. 
And she rose up and her two daughters-in-law, and they returned out of the country of Moab, for she heard in the country of Moab that the Lord had visited his people to give them bread. 
And she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters-in-law with her: and they went by the way to return to the land of Juda. 
And Noemin said to her daughter-in-law, Go now, return each to the house of her mother: the Lord deal mercifully with you, as you⌃ have dealt with the dead, and with me. 
The Lord grant you that you⌃ may find rest each of you in the house of her husband: and she kissed them; and they lifted up their voice, and wept. 
And they said to her, We will return with you to your people. 
And Noemin said, Return now, my daughters; and why do you⌃ go with me? have I yet sons in my womb to be your husbands? 
Turn now, my daughters, for I am too old to be married: for I said, Suppose I were married, and should bear sons; 
would you⌃ wait for them till they should be grown? or would you⌃ refrain from being married for their sakes? Not so, my daughters; for I am grieved for you, that the hand of the Lord has gone forth against me. 
And they lifted up their voice, and wept again; and Orpha kissed her mother-in-law and returned to her people; but Ruth followed her. 
And Noemin said to Ruth, Behold, your sister-in-law has returned to her people and to her gods; turn now you also after your sister-in-law. 
And Ruth said, Intreat me not to leave you, or to return from following you; for wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you lodge, I will lodge; your people shall be my people, and your God my God. 
And wherever you die, I will die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if I leave you, for death only shall divide between me and you. 
And Noemin seeing that she was determined to go with her, ceased to speak to her any more. 
And they went both of them until they came to Bethleem: and it came to pass, when they arrived at Bethleem, that all the city rang with them, and they said, Is this Noemin? 
And she said to them, Nay, do not call me Noemin; call me 'Bitter,' for the Mighty One has dealt very bitterly with me. 
I went out full, and the Lord has brought me back empty: and why call you⌃ me Noemin, whereas the Lord has humbled me and the Mighty One has afflicted me? 
So Noemin and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, returned from the country of Moab; and they came to Bethleem in the beginning of barley harvest. 
