Joshua.
Chapter 14.
And these are they of the children of Israel that received their inheritance in the land of Chanaan, to whom Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Naue, and the heads of the families of the tribes of the children of Israel, gave inheritance. 
They inherited according to their lots, as the Lord commanded by the hand of Joshua to the nine tribes and the half tribe, on the other side of Jordan. 
But to the Levites he gave no inheritance amongst them. 
For the sons of Joseph were two tribes, Manasse and Ephraim; and there was none inheritance in the land given to the Levites, only cities to dwell in, and their suburbs separated for the cattle, and their cattle. 
As the Lord commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel; and they divided the land. 
And the children of Juda came to Joshua in Galgal, and Chaleb the son of Jephone the Kenezite said to him, You know the word that the Lord spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and you in Cades Barne. 
For I was forty years old when Moses the servant of God sent me out of Cades Barne to spy out the land; and I returned him an answer according to his mind. 
My brethren that went up with me turned away the heart of the people, but I applied my self to follow the Lord my God. 
And Moses sware on that day, saying, The land on which you are gone up, it shall be your inheritance and your children's for ever, because you have applied yourself to follow the Lord our God. 
And now the Lord has kept me alive as he said: this is the forty-fifth year since the Lord spoke that word to Moses; and Israel journeyed in the wilderness; and now, behold, I am this day eighty-five years old. 
I am still strong this day, as when the Lord sent me: just so strong am I now to go out and to come in for war. 
And now I ask of you this mountain, as the Lord said in that day; for you heard this word on that day; and now the Enakim are there, cities great and strong: if then the Lord should be with me, I will utterly destroy them, as the Lord said to me. 
And Joshua blessed him, and gave Chebron to Chaleb the son of Jephone the son of Kenez for an inheritance. 
Therefore Chebron became the inheritance of Chaleb the son of Jephone the Kenezite until this day, because he followed the commandment of the Lord God of Israel. 
And the name of Chebron before was the city Argob, it is the metropolis of the Enakim: and the land rested from war. 
