JOSHUA.
Chapter 1.
And it came to pass after the death of Moses, that the Lord spoke to Joshua the son of Naue, the minister of Moses, saying, 
Moses my servant is dead; now then arise, go over Jordan, you and all this people, into the land, which I give them. 
Every spot on which you⌃ shall tread I will give it to you, as I said to Moses. 
The wilderness and Antilibanus, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, and as far as the extremity of the sea; your costs shall be from the setting of the sun. 
Not a man shall stand against you all the days of your life; and as I was with Moses, so will I also be with you, and I will not fail you, or neglect you. 
Be strong and 'quit yourself like a man, for you shall divide the land to this people, which I sware to give to your fathers. 
Be strong, therefore, and quit yourself like a man, to observe and do as Moses my servant commanded you; and you shall not turn therefrom to the right hand or to the left, that you may be wise in whatever you may do. 
And the book of this law shall not depart out of your mouth, and you shall meditate in it day and night, that you may know how to do all the things that are written in it; then shall you prosper, and make your ways prosperous, and then shall you be wise. 
Behold! I have commanded you; be strong and courageous, be not cowardly nor fearful, for the Lord your God is with you in all places whither you go. 
And Joshua commanded the scribes of the people, saying, 
Go into the midst of the camp of the people, and command the people, saying, Prepare provisions; for yet three days and you⌃ shall go over this Jordan, entering in to take possession of the land, which the Lord God of your fathers gives to you. 
And to Ruben, and to Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasse, Joshua said, 
Remember the word which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, saying, the Lord your God has caused you to rest, and has given you this land. 
Let your wives and your children and your cattle dwell in the land, which he has given you; and you⌃ shall go over well armed before your brethren, every one of you who is strong; and you⌃ shall fight on their side; 
until the Lord your God shall have given your brethren rest, as also to you, and they also shall have inherited the land, which the Lord your God gives them; then you⌃ shall depart each one to his inheritance, which Moses gave you beyond Jordan eastward. 
And they answered Joshua and said, We will do all things which you command us, and we will go to every place whither you shall send us. 
Whereinsoever we listened to Moses we will listen to you; only let the Lord our God be with you, as he was with Moses. 
And whoever shall disobey you, and whoever shall not listen to your words as you shall command him, let him die; but be you strong and courageous. 
