Leviticus.
Chapter 19.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the congregation of the children of Israel, and you shall say to them, You⌃ shall be holy; for I the Lord your God am holy. 
Let every one of you reverence his father and his mother; and you⌃ shall keep my sabbaths: I am the Lord your God. 
You⌃ shall not follow idols, and you⌃ shall not make to yourselves molten gods: I am the Lord your God. 
And if you⌃ will sacrifice a peace-offering to the Lord, you⌃ shall offer it acceptable from yourselves. 
In what day soever you⌃ shall sacrifice it, it shall be eaten; and on the following day, and if any of it should be left till the third day, it shall be thoroughly burnt with fire. 
And if it should be at all eaten on the third day, it is unfit for sacrifice: it shall not be accepted. 
And he that eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy things of the Lord; and the souls that eat it shall be destroyed from amongst their people. 
And when you⌃ reap the harvest of your land, you⌃ shall not complete the reaping of your field with exactness, and you shall not gather that which falls from your reaping. 
And you shall not go over the gathering of your vineyard, neither shall you gather the remaining grapes of your vineyard: you shall leave them for the poor and the stranger: I am the Lord your God. 
You⌃ shall not steal, you⌃ shall not lie, neither shall one bear false witness as an informer against his neighbour. 
And you⌃ shall not swear unjustly by my name, and you⌃ shall not profane the holy name of your God: I am the Lord your God. 
You shall not injure your neighbour, neither do you rob him, neither shall the wages of your hireling remain with you until the morning. 
You shall not revile the deaf, neither shall you put a stumbling block in the way of the blind; and you shall fear the Lord your God: I am the Lord your God. 
You shall not act unjustly in judgement: you shall not accept the person of the poor, nor admire the person of the mighty; with justice shall you judge your neighbour. 
You shall not walk deceitfully amongst your people; you shall not rise up against the blood of your neighbour: I am the Lord your God. 
You shall not hate your brother in your heart: you shall in any wise rebuke your neighbour, so you shall not bear sin on his account. 
And your hand shall not avenge you; and you shall not be angry with the children of your people; and you shall love your neighbour as yourself; I am the Lord. 
You⌃ shall observe my law: you shall not let your cattle gender with one of a different kind, and you shall not sow your vineyard with diverse seed; and you shall not put upon yourself a mingled garment woven of two materials. 
And if any one lie carnally with a woman, and she should be a home-servant kept for a man, and she has not been ransomed, and her freedom has not been given to her, they shall be visited with punishment; but they shall not die, because she was not set at liberty. 
And he shall bring for his trespass to the Lord to the door of the tabernacle of witness, a ram for a trespass-offering. 
And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering, before the Lord, for the sin which he sinned; and the sin which he sinned shall be forgiven him. 
And whenever you⌃ shall enter into the land which the Lord your God gives you, and shall plant any fruit tree, then shall you⌃ purge away its uncleanness; its fruit shall be three years uncleansed to you, it shall not be eaten. 
And in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, a subject of praise to the Lord. 
And in the fifth year you⌃ shall eat the fruit, its produce is an increase to you. I am the Lord your God. 
Eat not on the mountains, nor shall you⌃ employ auguries, nor divine by inspection of birds. 
You⌃ shall not make a round cutting of the hair of your head, nor disfigure your beard. 
And you⌃ shall not make cuttings in your body for a dead body, and you⌃ shall not inscribe on yourselves any marks. I am the Lord your God. 
You shall not profane your daughter to prostitute her; so the land shall not go a whoring, and the land be filled with iniquity. 
You⌃ shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuaries: I am the Lord. 
You⌃ shall not attend to those who have in them divining spirits, nor attach yourselves to enchanters, to pollute yourselves with them: I am the Lord your God. 
You shall rise up before the hoary head, and honour the face of the old man, and shall fear your God: I am the Lord your God. 
And if there should come to you a stranger in your land, you⌃ shall not afflict him. 
The stranger that comes to you shall be amongst you as the native, and you shall love him as yourself; for you⌃ were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God. 
You⌃ shall not act unrighteously in judgement, in measures and weights and scales. 
There shall be amongst you just balances and just weights and just liquid measure. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
And you⌃ shall keep all my law and all my ordinances, and you⌃ shall do them: I am the Lord your God. 
