Sophonias.
Chapter 3.
This is the scornful city that dwells securely, that says in her heart, I am, and there is no longer any to be after me: how is she become desolate, a habitation of wild beasts! every one that passes through her shall hiss, and shake his hands. Alas the glorious and ransomed city. 
The dove listened not to the voice; she received not correction; she trusted not in the Lord, and she drew not near to her God. 
Her princes within her were as roaring lions, her judges as the wolves of Arabia; they remained not till the morrow. 
Her prophets are light and scornful men: her priests profane the holy things, and sinfully transgress the law. 
But the just Lord is in the midst of her, and he will never do an unjust thing: morning by morning he will bring out his judgement to the light, and it is not hidden, and he knows not injustice by extortion, nor injustice in strife. 
I have brought down the proud with destruction; their corners are destroyed: I will make their ways completely waste, so that none shall go through: their cities are come to an end, by reason of no man living or dwelling in them. 
I said, But do you⌃ fear me, and receive instruction, and you⌃ shall not be cut off from the face of the land for all the vengeance I have brought upon her: prepare you, rise early: all their produce is spoilt. 
Therefore wait upon me, says the Lord, until the day when I rise up for a witness: because my judgement shall be on the gatherings of the nations, to draw to me kings, to pour out upon them all my fierce anger: for the whole earth shall be consumed with the fire of my jealousy. 
For then will I turn to the peoples a tongue for her generation, that all may call on the name of the Lord, to serve him under one yoke. 
From the boundaries of the rivers of Ethiopia will I receive my dispersed ones; they shall offer sacrifices to me. 
In that day you shall not be ashamed of all your practices, wherein you have transgressed against me: for then will I take away from you your disdainful pride, and you shall no more magnify yourself upon my holy mountain. 
And I will leave in you a meek and lowly people; 
and the remnant of Israel shall fear the name of the Lord, and shall do no iniquity, neither shall they speak vanity; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth: for they shall feed, and lie down, and there shall be none to terrify them. 
Rejoice, O daughter of Sion; cry aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem; rejoice and delight yourself with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. 
The Lord has taken away your iniquities, he has ransomed you from the hand of your enemies: the Lord, the King of Israel, is in the midst of you: you shall not see evil any more. 
At that time the Lord shall say to Jerusalem, Be of good courage, Sion; let not your hands be slack. 
The Lord your God is in you; the Mighty One shall save you: he shall bring joy upon you, and shall refresh you with his love; and he shall rejoice over you with delight as in a day of feasting. 
And I will gather your afflicted ones. Alas! who has taken up a reproach against her? 
Behold, I will work in you for your sake at that time, says the Lord: and I will save her that was oppressed, and receive her that was rejected; and I will make them a praise, and honoured in all the earth. 
And their enemies shall be ashamed at that time, when I shall deal well with you, and at the time when I shall receive you: for I will make you honoured and a praise amongst all the nations of the earth, when I turn back your captivity before you, says the Lord. 
