Job.
Chapter 6.
But Job answered and said, 
Oh that one would indeed weigh the wrath that is upon me, and take up my griefs in a balance together! 
And verily they would be heavier than the sand by the seashore: but, as it seems, my words are vain. 
For the arrows of the Lord are in my body, whose violence drinks up my blood: whenever I am going to speak, they pierce me. 
What then? will the wild ass bray for nothing, if he is not seeking food? or again, will the ox low at the manger, when he has a fodder? 
Shall bread be eaten without salt? or again, is there taste in empty words? 
For my wrath can’t cease; for I perceive my food as the smell of a lion to be loathsome. 
For oh that he would grant my desire, and my petition might come, and the Lord would grant my hope! 
Let the Lord begin and wound me, but let him not utterly destroy me. 
Let the grave be my city, upon the walls of which I have leapt: I will not shrink from it; for I have not denied the holy words of my God. 
For what is my strength, that I continue? what is my time, that my soul endures? 
Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass? 
Or have I not trusted in him? but help is far from me. 
Mercy has rejected me; and the visitation of the Lord has disregarded me. 
My nearest relations have not regarded me; they have passed me by like a failing brook, or like a wave. 
They who used to reverence me, now have come against me like snow or congealed ice. 
When it has melted at the approach of heat, it is not known what it was. 
Thus I also have been deserted of all; and I am ruined, and become an outcast. 
Behold the ways of the Thaemanites, you⌃ that mark the paths of the Sabaeans. 
They too that trust in cities and riches shall come to shame. 
But you⌃ also have come to me without pity; so that beholding my wound you⌃ are afraid. 
What? have I made any demand of you? or do I ask for strength from you, 
to deliver me from enemies, or to rescue me from the hand of the mighty ones? 
Teach you⌃ me, and I will be silent: if in anything I have erred, tell me. 
But as it seems, the words of a true man are vain, because I do not ask strength of you. 
Neither will your reproof cause me to cease my words, for neither will I endure the sound of your speech. 
Even because you⌃ attack the fatherless, and insult your friend. 
But now, having looked upon your countenances, I will not lie. 
Sit down now, and let there not be unrighteousness; and unite again with the just. 
For there is no injustice in my tongue; and does not my throat meditate understanding? 
