KINGS II.
Chapter 1.
And it came to pass after Saul was dead, that David returned from striking Amalec, and David abode two days in Sekelac. 
And it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came from the camp, from the people of Saul, and his garments were tore, and earth was upon his head: and it came to pass when he went in to David, that he fell upon the earth, and did obeisance to him. 
And David said to him, Whence come you? and he said to him, I have escaped out of the camp of Israel. 
And David said to him, What is the matter? tell me. And he said, The people fled out of the battle, and many of the people have fallen and are dead, and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead. 
And David said to the young man who brought him the tidings, How know you that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead? 
And the young man that brought the tidings, said to him, I happened accidentally to be upon mount Gelbue; and, behold, Saul was leaning upon his spear, and, behold, the chariots and captains of horse pressed hard upon him. 
And he looked behind him, and saw me, and called me; and I said, Behold, here am I. 
And he said to me, Who are you? and I said, I am an Amalekite. 
And he said to me, Stand, I pray you, over me, and kill me, for a dreadful darkness has come upon me, for all my life is in me. 
So I stood over him and killed him, because I knew he would not live after he was fallen; and I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was upon his arm, and I have brought them hither to my lord. 
And David laid hold of his garments, and tore them; and all the men who were with him tore their garments. 
And they lamented, and wept, and fasted till evening, for Saul and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Juda, and for the house of Israel, because they were struck with the sword. 
And David said to the young man who brought the tidings to him, Whence are you? and he said, I am the son of an Amalekite sojourner. 
And David said to him, How was it you were not afraid to lift your hand to destroy the anointed of the Lord? 
And David called one of his young men, and said, Go and fall upon him: and he struck him, and he died. 
And David said to him, Your blood be upon your own head; for your mouth has testified against you, saying, I have slain the anointed of the Lord. 
And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. 
And he gave orders to teach it the sons of Juda: behold, it is written in the book of Right. 
Set up a pillar, O Israel, for the slain that died upon your high places: how are the mighty fallen! 
Tell it not in Geth, and tell it not as glad tidings in the streets of Ascalon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. 
You⌃ mountains of Gelbue, let not dew no rain descend upon you, nor fields of first fruits be upon you, for there the shield of the mighty ones has been grievously assailed; the shield of Saul was not anointed with oil. 
From the blood of the slain, and from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan returned not empty; and the sword of Saul turned not back empty. 
Saul and Jonathan, the beloved and the beautiful, were not divided: comely were they in their life, and in their death they were not divided: they were swifter than eagles, and they were stronger than lions. 
Daughters of Israel, weep for Saul, who clothed you with scarlet together with your adorning, who added golden ornaments to your apparel. 
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! O Jonathan, even the slain ones upon your high places! 
I am grieved for you, my brother Jonathan; you were very lovely to me; your love to me was wonderful beyond the love of women. 
How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished! 
