Jezekiel.
Chapter 6.
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, set your face against the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them; 
and you shall say, You⌃ mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord; thus says the Lord to the mountains, and to the hills, and to the valleys, and to the forests; Behold, I bring a sword upon you, and your high places shall be utterly destroyed. 
And your altars shall be broken to pieces, and your consecrated plats; and I will cast down your slain men before your idols. 
And I will scatter your bones round about your altars, 
and in all your habitations: the cities shall be made desolate, and the high places utterly laid waste; that your altars may be destroyed, and your idols be broken to pieces, and your consecrated plats be abolished. 
And slain men shall fall in the midst of you, and you⌃ shall know that I am the Lord. 
When there are some of you escaping from the sword amongst the Gentiles, and when you⌃ are scattered in the countries; 
then they of you that escape amongst the nations whither they were carried captive shall remember me; (I have sworn an oath against their heart that goes a-whoring from me, and their eyes that go a-whoring after their practices;) and they shall mourn over themselves for all their abominations. 
And they shall know that I the Lord have spoken. 
Thus says the Lord; Clap with your hand, and stamp with your foot and say, Aha, aha! for all the abominations of the house of Israel: they shall fall by the sword, and by pestilence, and by famine. 
He that is near shall fall by the sword; and he that is far off shall die by the pestilence; and he that is in the siege shall be consumed with famine: and I will accomplish mine anger upon them. 
Then you⌃ shall know that I am the Lord, when your slain are in the midst of your idols round about your altars, on every high hill, and under every shady tree, where they offered a sweet savour to all their idols. 
And I will stretch out my hand against them, and I will make the land desolate and ruined from the wilderness of Deblatha, in all their habitations: and you⌃ shall know that I am the Lord. 
