Proverbs.
Chapter 17.
Better is a morsel with pleasure in peace, than a house full of many good things and unjust sacrifices, with strife. 
A wise servant shall have rule over foolish masters, and shall divide portions amongst brethren. 
As silver and gold are tried in a furnace, so are choice hearts with the Lord. 
A bad man hearkens to the tongue of transgressors: but a righteous man attends not to false lips. 
He that laughs at the poor provokes him that made him; and he that rejoices at the destruction of another shall not be held guiltless: but he that has compassion shall find mercy. 
Children's children are the crown of old men; and their fathers are the glory of children. The faithful has the whole world full of wealth; but the faithless not even a farthing. 
Faithful lips will not suit a fool; nor lying lips a just man. 
Instruction is to them that use it a gracious reward; and wherever it may turn, it shall prosper. 
He that conceals injuries seeks love; but he that hates to hide them separates friends and kindred. 
A threat breaks down the heart of a wise man; but a fool, though scourged, understands not. 
Every bad man stirs up strifes: but the Lord will send out against him an unmerciful messenger. 
Care may befall a man of understanding; but fools will meditate evils. 
Whoso rewards evil for good, evil shall not be removed from his house. 
Rightful rule gives power to words; but sedition and strife precede poverty. 
He that pronounces the unjust just, and the just unjust, is unclean and abominable with God. 
Why has the fool wealth? for a senseless man will not be able to purchase wisdom. He that exalts his own house seeks ruin; and he that turns aside from instruction shall fall into mischief. 
Have you a friend for every time, and let brethren be useful in distress; for on this account are they born. 
A foolish man applauds and rejoices over himself, as he also that becomes surety would make himself responsible for his own friends. 
A lover of sin rejoices in strifes; 
and the hard-hearted man comes not in for good. A man of a changeful tongue will fall into mischiefs; 
and the heart of a fool is grief to its possessor. A father rejoices not over an uninstructed son; but a wise son gladdens his mother. 
A glad heart promotes health; but the bones of a sorrowful man dry up. 
The ways of a man who unjustly receives gifts in his bosom do not prosper; and an ungodly man perverts the ways of righteousness. 
The countenance of a wise man is sensible; but the eyes of a fool go to the ends of the earth. 
A foolish son is a cause of anger to his father, and grief to her that bore him. 
It is not right to punish a righteous man, nor is it holy to plot against righteous princes. 
He that forbears to utter a hard word is discreet, and a patient man is wise. 
Wisdom shall be imputed to a fool who asks after wisdom: and he who holds his peace shall seem to be sensible. 
