Esther.
Chapter 6.
But the Lord removed sleep from the king that night: and he told his servant to bring in the books, the registers of daily events, to read to him. 
And he found the records written concerning Mardochaeus, how he had told the king concerning the two chamberlains of the king, when they were keeping guard, and sought to lay hands on Artaxerxes. 
And the king said, What honour or favour have we done to Mardochaeus? And the king's servants said, You have not done anything to him. 
And while the king was enquiring about the kindness of Mardochaeus, behold, Aman was in the court. And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Aman was come in to speak to the king, that he should hang Mardochaeus on the gallows, which he had prepared. 
And the king's servants said, Behold, Aman stands in the court. And the king said, Call him. 
And the king said to Aman, What shall I do to the man whom I wish to honour? And Aman said within himself, Whom would the king honour but myself? 
and he said to the king, As for the man whom the king wishes to honour, 
let the king's servants bring the robe of fine linen which the king puts on, and the horse on which the king rides, 
and let him give it to one of the king's noble friends, and let him array the man whom the king loves; and let him mount him on the horse, and proclaim through the street of the city, saying, Thus shall it be done to every man whom the king honours. 
Then the king said to Aman, You have well said: so do to Mardochaeus the Jew, who waits in the palace, and let not a word of what you have spoken be neglected. 
So Aman took the robe and the horse, and arrayed Mardochaeus, and mounted him on the horse, and went through the street of the city, and proclaimed, saying, Thus shall it be to every man whom the king wishes to honour. 
And Mardochaeus returned to the palace: but Aman went home mourning, and having his head covered. 
And Aman related the events that had befallen him to Zosara his wife, and to his friends: and his friends and his wife said to him, If Mardochaeus be of the race of the Jews, and you have begun to be humbled before him, you will assuredly fall, and you will not be able to withstand him, for the living God is with him. 
While they were yet speaking, the chamberlains arrived, to hasten Aman to the banquet which Esther had prepared. 
