Jeremias.
Chapter 48.
Now it came to pass in the seventh month that Ismael the son of Nathanias the son of Eleasa of the seed royal, came, and ten men with him, to Godolias to Massepha: and they ate bread there together. 
And Ismael rose up, and the ten men that were with him, and struck Godolias, whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor over the land, 
and all the Jews that were with him in Massepha, and all the Chaldeans that were found there. 
And it came to pass on the second day after he had struck Godolias, and no man knew of it, 
that there came men from Sychem, and from Salem, and from Samaria, even eighty men, having their beards shaven, and their clothes tore, and beating their breasts, and they had manna and frankincense in their hands, to bring them into the house of the Lord. 
And Ismael went out to meet them; and they went on and wept: and he said to them, Come in to Godolias. 
And it came to pass, when they had entered into the midst of the city, that he killed them and cast them into a pit. 
But ten men were found there, and they said to Ismael, Slay us not: for we have treasures in the field, wheat and barley, honey and oil. So he passed by, and killed them not in the midst of their brethren. 
Now the pit into which Ismael cast all whom he struck, is the great pit, which king Asa had made for fear of Baasa king of Israel: even this Ismael filled with slain men. 
And Ismael brought back all the people that were left in Massepha, and the king's daughter, whom the captain of the guard had committed in charge to Godolias the son of Achicam: and he went away beyond the children of Ammon. 
And Joanan the son of Caree, and all the leaders of the host that were with him, heard of all the evil deeds which Ismael had done. 
And they brought all their army, and went to fight against him, and found him near much water in Gabaon. 
And it came to pass, when all the people that was with Ismael saw Joanan, and the leaders of the host that was with him, 
that they returned to Joanan. 
But Ismael escaped with eight men and went to the children of Ammon. 
And Joanan, and all the leaders of the host that were with him, took all the remnant of the people, whom he had brought back from Ismael, mighty men in war, and the women, and the other property, and the eunuchs, whom they had brought back from Gabaon: 
and they departed, and lived in Gaberoch-amaa, that is by Bethleem, to go into Egypt, for fear of the Chaldeans: 
for they were afraid of them, because Ismael had struck Godolias, whom the king of Babylon made governor in the land. 
