Numbers.
Chapter 15.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the children of Israel, and you shall say to them, When you⌃ are come into the land of your habitation, which I give to you, 
and you will offer whole burnt offerings to the Lord, a whole burnt offering or a meat-offering to perform a vow, or a free-will offering, or to offer in your feasts a sacrifice of sweet savour to the Lord, whether of the herd or the flock: 
then he that offers his gift to the Lord shall bring a meat-offering of fine flour, a tenth part of an ephah mingled with oil, even with the fourth part of a hin. 
And for a drink-offering you⌃ shall offer the fourth part of a hin on the whole burnt offering, or on the meat-offering: for every lamb you shall offer so much, as a sacrifice, a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And for a ram, when you⌃ offer it as a whole burnt offering or as a sacrifice, you shall prepare as a meat-offering two tenths of fine flour mingled with oil, the third part of a hin. 
And you⌃ shall offer for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord wine for a drink-offering, the third part of a hin. 
And if you⌃ sacrifice a bullock from the herd for a whole burnt offering or for a sacrifice, to perform a vow or a peace-offering to the Lord, 
then the worshipper shall offer upon the calf a meat-offering, three tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil, even the half of a hin. 
And wine for a drink-offering the half of a hin, a sacrifice for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
Thus shall you do to one calf or to one ram, or to one lamb of the sheep or kid of the goats. 
According to the number of what you⌃ shall offer, so shall you⌃ do to each one, according to their number. 
Every native of the country shall do thus to offer such things as sacrifices for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And if there should be a stranger amongst you in your land, or one who should be born to you amongst your generations, and he will offer a sacrifice, a smell of sweet savour to the Lord—as you⌃ do, so the whole congregation shall offer to the Lord. 
There shall be one law for you and for the strangers dwelling amongst you, a perpetual law for your generations: as you⌃ are, so shall the stranger be before the Lord. 
There shall be one law and one ordinance for you, and for the stranger that abides amongst you. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, When you⌃ are entering into the land, into which I bring you, 
then it shall come to pass, when you⌃ shall eat of the bread of the land, you⌃ shall separate a wave-offering, a special offering to the Lord, the first fruits of your dough. 
You⌃ shall offer your bread a heave-offering: as a heave-offering from the threshing floor, so shall you⌃ separate it, 
even the first fruits of your dough, and you⌃ shall give the Lord a heave-offering throughout your generations. 
But whenever you⌃ shall transgress, and not perform all these commands, which the Lord spoke to Moses; 
as the Lord appointed you by the hand of Moses, from the day which the Lord appointed you and forward throughout your generations, 
then it shall come to pass, if a trespass be committed unwillingly, unknown to the congregation, then shall all the congregation offer a calf of the herd without blemish for a whole burnt offering of sweet savour to the Lord, and its meat-offering and its drink-offering according to the ordinance, and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering. 
And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the trespass shall be forgiven them, because it is involuntary; and they have brought their gift, a burnt offering to the Lord for their trespass before the Lord, even for their involuntary sins. 
And it shall be forgiven as respects all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that is dwelling amongst you, because it is involuntary to all the people. 
And if one soul sin unwillingly, he shall bring one she-goat of a year old for a sin-offering. 
And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that committed the trespass unwillingly, and that sinned unwillingly before the Lord, to make atonement for him. 
There shall be one law for the native amongst the children of Israel, and for the stranger that abides amongst them, whoever shall commit a trespass unwillingly. 
And whatever soul either of the natives or of the strangers shall do any thing with a presumptuous hand, he will provoke God; that soul shall be cut off from his people, 
for he has set at nothing the word of the Lord and broken his commands: that soul shall be utterly destroyed, his sin is upon him. 
And the children of Israel were in the wilderness, and they found a man gathering sticks on the sabbath-day. 
And they who found him gathering sticks on the sabbath-day brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel. 
And they placed him in custody, for they did not determine what they should do to him. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Let the man be by all means put to death: do you⌃ all the congregation, stone him with stones. 
And all the congregation brought him forth out of the camp; and all the congregation stoned him with stones outside the camp, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the children of Israel, and you shall tell them; and let them make for themselves fringes upon the borders of their garments throughout their generations: and you⌃ shall put upon the fringes of the borders a lace of blue. 
And it shall be on your fringes, and you⌃ shall look on them, and you⌃ shall remember all the commands of the Lord, and do them: and you⌃ shall not turn back after your imaginations, and after the sight of your eyes in the things after which you⌃ go a whoring; 
that you⌃ may remember and perform all my commands, and you⌃ shall be holy to your God. 
I am the Lord your God that brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the Lord your God. 
