Proverbs.
Chapter 20.
Wine is an intemperate thing, and strong drink full of violence: but every fool is entangled with them. 
The threat of a king differs not from the rage of a lion; and he that provokes him sins against his own soul. 
It is a glory to a man to turn aside from railing; but every fool is entangled with such matters. 
A sluggard when reproached is not ashamed: so also he who borrows corn in harvest. 
Counsel in a man's heart is deep water; but a prudent man will draw it out. 
A man is valuable, and a merciful man precious: but it is hard to find a faithful man. 
He that walks blameless in justice, shall leave his children blessed. 
Whenever a righteous king sits on the throne, no evil thing can stand before his presence. 
Who will boast that he has a pure heart? or who will boldly say that he is pure from sins? 
A large and small weight, and various measures, are even both of them unclean before the Lord; and so is he that makes them. 
A youth when in company with a godly man, will be restrained in his devices, and then his way will be straight. 
The ear hears, and the eye sees: even both of them are the Lord's work. 
Love not to speak ill, lest you be cut off: open your eyes, and be filled with bread. 
The lamp of him that reviles father or mother shall be put out, and his eyeballs shall see darkness. 
A portion hastily gotten at first shall not be blessed in the end. 
Say not, I will avenge myself on my enemy; but wait on the Lord, that he may help you. 
A double weight is an abomination to the Lord; and a deceitful balance is not good in his sight. 
A man's goings are directed of the Lord: how then can a mortal understand his ways? 
It is a snare to a man hastily to consecrate some of his own property: for in that case repentance comes after vowing. 
A wise king utterly crushes the ungodly, and will bring a wheel upon them. 
The spirit of man is a light of the Lord, who searches the inmost parts of the belly. 
Mercy and truth are a guard to a king, and will surround his throne with righteousness. 
Wisdom is an ornament to young men; and grey hairs are the glory of old men. 
Bruises and contusions befall bad men; and plagues shall come in the inward parts of their belly. 
