Numbers.
Chapter 29.
And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, there shall be to you a holy convocation: you⌃ shall do no servile work: it shall be to you a day of blowing the trumpets. 
And you⌃ shall offer whole burnt offerings for a sweet savour to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old without blemish. 
Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram: 
a tenth deal for each several ram, for the seven lambs. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you. 
Beside the whole burnt offerings for the new moon, and their meat-offerings, and their drink-offerings, and their perpetual whole burnt offering; and their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings according to their ordinance for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord. 
And on the tenth of this month there shall be to you a holy convocation; and you⌃ shall afflict your souls, and you⌃ shall do no work. 
And you⌃ shall bring near whole burnt offerings for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord; burnt sacrifices to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old; they shall be to you without blemish. 
Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram. 
A tenth deal for each several lamb, for the seven lambs. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you; beside the sin-offering for atonement, and the continual whole burnt offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offering according to its ordinance for a smell of sweet savour, a burnt sacrifice to the Lord. 
And on the fifteenth day of this seventh month you⌃ shall have a holy convocation; you⌃ shall do no servile work; and you⌃ shall keep it a feast to the Lord seven days. 
And you⌃ shall bring near whole burnt offerings, a sacrifice for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord, on the first day thirteen calves of the herd, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old; they shall be without blemish. 
their meat-offerings shall be fine flour mingled with oil; there shall be three tenth deals for one calf, for the thirteen calves; and two tenth deals for one ram, for the two rams. 
A tenth deal for every lamb, for the fourteen lambs. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole burnt offering: there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
And on the second day twelve calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish. 
Their meat-offering and their drink-offering shall be for the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole burnt offering; their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
On the third day eleven calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish. 
Their meat-offering and their drink-offering shall be to the calves and to the rams and to the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole burnt offering; there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
On the fourth day ten calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without spot. 
There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole burnt offering there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
On the fifth day nine calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without spot. 
Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings shall be to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole burnt offering; there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
On the sixth day eight calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish. 
There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings to the calves and rams and lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole burnt offering; there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
On the seventh day seven calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish. 
Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings shall be to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole burnt offering; there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
And on the eighth day there shall be to you a release: you⌃ shall do no servile work in it. 
And you⌃ shall offer whole burnt offerings as sacrifices to the Lord, one calf, one ram, seven lambs of a year old without spot. 
There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings for the calf and the ram and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole burnt offering; there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings. 
These sacrifices shall you⌃ offer to the Lord in your feasts, besides your vows; and you⌃ shall offer your free will offerings and your whole burnt offerings, and your meat-offerings and your drink-offerings, and your peace-offerings. 
