Deuteronomy.
Chapter 24.
And if you should go into the corn field of your neighbour, then you may gather the ears with your hands; but you shall not put the sickle to your neighbour's corn. 
And if you should go into the vineyard of your neighbour, you shall eat grapes sufficient to satisfy your desire; but you may not put them into a vessel. 
And if any one should take a wife, and should dwell with her, then it shall come to pass if she should not have found favour before him, because he has found some unbecoming thing in her, that he shall write for her a bill of divorcement, and give it into her hands, and he shall send her away out of his house. 
And if she should go away and be married to another man; 
and the last husband should hate her, and write for her a bill of divorcement; and should give it into her hands, and send her away out of his house, and the last husband should die, who took her to himself for a wife; 
the former husband who sent her away shall not be able to return and take her to himself for a wife, after she has been defiled; because it is an abomination before the Lord your God, and you⌃ shall not defile the land, which the Lord your God gives you to inherit. 
And if any one should have recently taken a wife, he shall not go out to war, neither shall any thing be laid upon him; he shall be free in his house; for one year he shall cheer his wife whom he has taken. 
You shall not take for a pledge the under millstone, nor the upper millstone; for he who does so takes life for a pledge. 
And if a man should be caught stealing one of his brethren of the children of Israel, and having overcome him he should sell him, that thief shall die; so shall you remove that evil one from yourselves. 
Take heed to yourself in regard of the plague of leprosy: you shall take great heed to do according to all the law, which the priests the Levites shall report to you; take heed to do, as I have charged you. 
Remember all that the Lord your God did to Mariam in the way, when you⌃ were going out of Egypt. 
If your neighbour owe you a debt, any debt whatever, you shall not go into his house to take his pledge: 
you shall stand without, and the man who is in your debt shall bring the pledge out to you. 
And if the man be poor, you shall not sleep with his pledge. 
You shall surely restore his pledge at sunset, and he shall sleep in his garment, and he shall bless you; and it shall be mercy to you before the Lord your God. 
You shall not unjustly withhold the wages of the poor and needy of your brethren, or of the strangers who are in your cities. 
You shall pay him his wages the same day, the sun shall not go down upon it, because he is poor and he trusts in it; and he shall cry against you to the Lord, and it shall be sin in you. 
The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, and the sons shall not be put to death for the fathers; every one shall be put to death for his own sin. 
You shall not wrest the judgement of the stranger and the fatherless, and widow; you shall not take the widow's garment for a pledge. 
And you shall remember that you were a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you from thence; therefore I charge you to do this thing. 
And when you shall have reaped corn in your field, and shall have forgotten a sheaf in your field, you shall not return to take it; it shall be for the stranger, and the orphan, and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the works of your hands. 
And if you should gather your olives, you shall not return to collect the remainder; it shall be for the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, and you shall remember that you were a bondman in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this thing. 
And when soever you shall gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean what you have left; it shall be for the stranger, and the orphan, and the widow: 
and you shall remember that you were a bondman in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this thing. 
