Deuteronomy.
Chapter 7.
And when the Lord your God shall bring you into the land, into which you go to possess it, and shall remove great nations from before you, the Chettite, and Gergesite, and Amorite, and Chananite, and Pherezite, and Evite, and Jebusite, seven nations more numerous and stronger than you, 
and the Lord your God shall deliver them into your hands, then you shall strike them: you shall utterly destroy them: you shall not make a covenant with them, neither shall you⌃ pity them: 
neither shall you⌃ contract marriages with them: you shall not give your daughter to his son, and you shall not take his daughter to your son. 
For he will draw away your son from me, and he will serve other gods; and the Lord will be very angry with you, and will soon utterly destroy you. 
But thus shall you⌃ do to them; you⌃ shall destroy their altars, and shall break down their pillars, and shall cut down their groves, and shall burn with fire the graven images of their gods. 
For you are a holy people to the Lord your God; and the Lord your God chose you to be to him a peculiar people beyond all nations that are upon the face of the earth. 
It was not because you⌃ are more numerous than all other nations that the Lord preferred you, and the Lord made choice of you: for you⌃ are fewer in number than all other nations. 
But because the Lord loved you, and as keeping the oath which he sware to your fathers, the Lord brought you out with a strong hand, and the Lord redeemed you from the house of bondage, out of the hand of Pharao king of Egypt. 
You shall know therefore, that the Lord your God, he is God, a faithful God, who keeps covenant and mercy for them that love him, and for those that keep his commandments to a thousand generations, 
and who recompenses them that hate him to their face, to destroy them utterly; and will not be slack with them that hate him: he will recompense them to their face. 
You shall keep therefore the commands, and the ordinances, and these judgements, which I command you this day to do. 
And it shall come to pass when you⌃ shall have heard these ordinances, and shall have kept and done them, that the Lord your God shall keep for you the covenant and the mercy, which he sware to your fathers. 
And he will love you, and bless you, and multiply you; and he will bless the off-spring of your body, and the fruit of your land, your corn, and your wine, and your oil, the herds of your oxen, and the flocks of your sheep, on the land which the Lord sware to your fathers to give to you. 
You shall be blessed beyond all nations; there shall not be amongst you an impotent or barren one, or amongst your cattle. 
And the Lord your God shall remove from you all sickness; and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you have seen, and all that you have known, will he lay upon you; but he will lay them upon all that hate you. 
And you shall eat all the spoils of the nations which the Lord your God gives you; your eye shall not spare them, and you shall not serve their gods; for this is an offence to you. 
But if you should say in your heart, This nation is greater than I, how shall I be able to destroy them utterly? 
you shall not fear them; you shall surely remember all that the Lord your God did to Pharao and to all the Egyptians: 
the great temptations which your eyes have seen, those signs and great wonders, the strong hand, and the high arm; how the Lord your God brought you forth: so the Lord your God will do to all the nations, whom you fear in their presence. 
And the Lord your God shall send against them the hornets, until they that are left and they that are hidden from you be utterly destroyed. 
You shall not be wounded before them, because the Lord your God in the midst of you is a great and powerful God. 
And the Lord your God shall consume these nations before you by little and little: you shall not be able to consume them speedily, lest the land become desert, and the wild beasts of the field be multiplied against you. 
And the Lord your God shall deliver them into your hands, and you shall destroy them with a great destruction, until you⌃ shall have utterly destroyed them. 
And he shall deliver their kings into your hands, and you⌃ shall destroy their name from that place; none shall stand up in opposition before you, until you shall have utterly destroyed them. 
You⌃ shall burn with fire the graven images of their gods: you shall not covet their silver, neither shall you take to yourself gold from them, lest you should offend thereby, because it is an abomination to the Lord your God. 
And you shall not bring an abomination into your house, so should you be an accursed thing like it; you shall utterly hate it, and altogether abominate it, because it is an accursed thing. 
