Leviticus.
Chapter 18.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to the children of Israel, and you shall say to them, I am the Lord your God. 
You⌃ shall not do according to the devices of Egypt, in which you⌃ lived: and according to the devices of the land of Chanaan, into which I bring you, you⌃ shall not do; and you⌃ shall not walk in their ordinances. 
You⌃ shall observe my judgements, and shall keep my ordinances, and shall walk in them: I am the Lord your God. 
So you⌃ shall keep all my ordinances, and all my judgements, and do them; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am the Lord your God. 
No man shall draw near to any of his near kindred to uncover their nakedness; I am the Lord. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, or the nakedness of your mother, for she is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is your father's nakedness. 
The nakedness of your sister by your father or by your mother, born at home or abroad, their nakedness you shall not uncover. 
The nakedness of your son's daughter, or your daughter's daughter, their nakedness you shall not uncover; because it is your nakedness. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of the daughter of your father's wife; she is your sister by the same father: you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister, for she is near akin to your father. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is near akin to your mother. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, and you shall not go in to his wife; for she is your relation. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law, for she is your son's wife, you shall not uncover her nakedness. 
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife: it is your brother's nakedness. 
The nakedness of a woman and her daughter shall you not uncover; her son's daughter, and her daughter's daughter, shall you not take, to uncover their nakedness, for they are your kinswomen: it is impiety. 
You shall not take a wife in addition to her sister, as a rival, to uncover her nakedness in opposition to her, while she is yet living. 
And you shall not go in to a woman under separation for her uncleanness, to uncover her nakedness. 
And you shall not lie with your neighbour's wife, to defile yourself with her. 
And you shall not give of your seed to serve a ruler; and you shall not profane my holy name; I am the Lord. 
And you shall not lie with a man as with a woman, for it is an abomination. 
Neither shall you lie with any quadruped for copulation, to be polluted with it: neither shall a woman present herself before any quadruped to have connexion with it; for it is an abomination. 
Do not defile yourselves with any of these things; for in all these things the nations are defiled, which I drive out before you, 
and the land is polluted; and I have recompensed their iniquity to them because of it, and the land is aggrieved with them that dwell upon it. 
And you⌃ shall keep all my statutes and all my ordinances, and you⌃ shall do none of these abominations; neither the native, nor the stranger that joins himself with you: 
(for all these abominations the men of the land did who were before you, and the land was defiled,) 
and lest the land be aggrieved with you in your polluting it, as it was aggrieved with the nations before you. 
For whoever shall do any of these abominations, the souls that do them shall be destroyed from amongst their people. 
And you⌃ shall keep mine ordinances, that you⌃ may not do any of the abominable practices, which have taken place before your time: and you⌃ shall not be polluted in them; for I am the Lord your God. 
