Job.
Chapter 11.
Then Sophar the Minaean answered and said, 
He that speaks much, should also hear on the other side: or does the fluent speaker think himself to be righteous? blessed is the short lived offspring of woman. 
Be not a speaker of many words; for is there none to answer you? 
For say not, I am pure in my works, and blameless before him. 
But oh that the Lord would speak to you, and open his lips to you! 
Then shall he declare to you the power of wisdom; for it shall be double of that which is with you: and then shall you know, that a just recompence of your sins has come to you from the Lord. 
Will you find out the traces of the Lord? or have you come to the end of that which the Almighty has made? 
Heaven is high; and what will you do? and there are deeper things than those in hell; what do you know? 
Or longer than the measure of the earth, or the breadth of the sea. 
And if he should overthrow all things, who will say to him, What have you done? 
For he knows the works of transgressors; and when he sees wickedness, he will not overlook it. 
But man vainly buoys himself up with words; and a mortal born of woman is like an ass in the desert. 
For if you have made your heart pure, and lift up your hands towards him; 
if there is any iniquity in your hands, put if far from you, and let not unrighteousness lodge in your habitation. 
For thus shall your countenance shine again, as pure water; and you shall dive yourself of uncleanness, and shall not fear. 
And you shall forget trouble, as a wave that has passed by; and you shall not be scared. 
And your prayer shall be as the morning star, and life shall arise to you as from the noonday. 
And you shall be confident, because you have hope; and peace shall dawn to you from out of anxiety and care. 
For you shall be at ease, and there shall be no one to fight against you; and many shall charge, and make supplication to you. 
But safety shall fail them; for their hope is destruction, and the eyes of the ungodly shall waste away. 
