Exodus.
Chapter 20.
And the Lord spoke all these words, saying: 
I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
You shall have no other gods beside me. 
You shall not make to yourself an idol, nor likeness of anything, whatever things are in the heaven above, and whatever are in the earth beneath, and whatever are in the waters under the earth. 
You shall not bow down to them, nor serve them; for I am the Lord your God, a jealous God, recompensing the sins of the fathers upon the children, to the third and fourth generation to them that hate me, 
and bestowing mercy on them that love me to thousands of them, and on them that keep my commandments. 
You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain; for the Lord your God will not acquit him that takes his name in vain. 
Remember the sabbath day to keep it holy. 
Six days you shall labour, and shall perform all your work. 
But on the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord your God; on it you shall do no work, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, your servant nor your maidservant, your ox nor your ass, nor any cattle of your, nor the stranger that sojourns with you. 
For in six days the Lord made the heaven and the earth, and the sea and all things in them, and rested on the seventh day; therefore the Lord blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it. 
Honour your father and your mother, that it may be well with you, and that you may live long on the good land, which the Lord your God gives to you. 
You shall not commit adultery. 
You shall not steal. 
You shall not kill. 
You shall not bear false witness against your neighbour. 
You shall not covet your neighbour's wife; you shall not covet your neighbour's house; nor his field, nor his servant, nor his maid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any of his cattle, nor whatever belongs to your neighbour. 
And all the people perceived the thundering, and the flashes, and the voice of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking; and all the people feared and stood afar off, 
and said to Moses, Speak you to us, and let not God speak to us, lest we die. 
And Moses says to them, Be of good courage, for God is come to you to try you, that his fear may be amongst you, that you⌃ sin not. 
And the people stood afar off, and Moses went into the darkness where God was. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Thus shall you say to the house of Jacob, and you shall report it to the children of Israel, You⌃ have seen that I have spoken to you from heaven. 
You⌃ shall not make to yourselves gods of silver, and gods of gold you⌃ shall not make to yourselves. 
You⌃ shall make to me an altar of earth; and upon it you⌃ shall sacrifice your whole burnt offerings, and your peace-offerings, and your sheep and your calves in every place, where I shall record my name; and I will come to you and bless you. 
And if you will make to me an altar of stones, you shall not build them hewn stones; for you have lifted up your tool upon them, and they are defiled. 
You shall not go up to my altar by steps, that you may not uncover your nakedness upon it. 
