Leviticus.
Chapter 17.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and you shall say to them, This is the word which the Lord has commanded, saying, 
Every man of the children of Israel, or of the strangers dwelling amongst you, who shall kill a calf, or a sheep, or a goat in the camp, or who shall kill it out of the camp, 
and shall not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of witness, so as to sacrifice it for a whole burnt offering or peace-offering to the Lord to be acceptable for a sweet smelling savour: and whoever shall kill it without, and shall not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of witness, so as to offer it as a gift to the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord; blood shall be imputed to that man, he has shed blood; that soul shall be cut off from his people. 
That the children of Israel may offer their sacrifices, all that they shall kill in the fields, and bring them to the Lord to the doors of the tabernacle of witness to the priest, and they shall sacrifice them as a peace-offering to the Lord. 
And the priest shall pour the blood on the altar round about before the Lord by the doors of the tabernacle of witness, and shall offer the fat for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord. 
And they shall no longer offer their sacrifices to vain gods after which they go a whoring; it shall be a perpetual statute to you for your generations. 
And you shall say to them, Whatever man of the children of Israel, or of the sons of the proselytes dwelling amongst you, shall offer a whole burnt offering or a sacrifice, 
and shall not bring it to the door of the tabernacle of witness to sacrifice it to the Lord, that man shall be destroyed from amongst his people. 
And whatever man of the children of Israel, or of the strangers dwelling amongst you, shall eat any blood, I will even set my face against that soul that eats blood, and will destroy it from its people. 
For the life of flesh is its blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls; for its blood shall make atonement for the soul. 
Therefore I said to the children of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, and the stranger that abides amongst you shall not eat blood. 
And whatever man of the children of Israel, or of the strangers dwelling amongst you shall take any animal in hunting, beast, or bird, which is eaten, then shall he pour out the blood, and cover it in the dust. 
For the blood of all flesh is its life; and I said to the children of Israel, You⌃ shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood: every one that eats it shall be destroyed. 
And every soul which eats that which has died of itself, or is taken of beasts, either amongst the natives or amongst the strangers, shall wash his garments, and bathe himself in water, and shall be unclean until evening: then shall he be clean. 
But if he do not wash his garments, and do not bathe his body in water, then shall he bear his iniquity. 
