Proverbs.
Chapter 4.
Hear, you⌃ children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding. 
For I give you a good gift; forsake you⌃ not my law. 
For I also was a son obedient to my father, and loved in the sight of my mother: 
who spoke and instructed me, saying, Let our speech be fixed in your heart, keep our commandments, forget them not: 
and do not neglect the speech of my mouth. 
And forsake it not, and it shall cleave to you: love it, and it shall keep you. 
Secure it, and it shall exalt you: honour it, that it may embrace you; 
that it may give to your head a crown of graces, and may cover you with a crown of delight. 
Hear, my son, and receive my words; and the years of your life shall be increased, that the resources of your life may be many. 
For I teach you the ways of wisdom; and I cause you to go in right paths. 
For when you go, your steps shall not be straitened; and when you run, you shall not be distressed. 
Take hold of my instruction; let it not go, —but keep it for yourself for your life. 
Go not in the ways of the ungodly, neither covet the ways of transgressors. 
In whatever place they shall pitch their camp, go not there; but turn from them, and pass away. 
For they can’t sleep, unless they have done evil: their sleep is taken away, and they rest not. 
For these live upon the bread of ungodliness, and are drunken with wine of transgression. 
But the ways of the righteous shine like light; they go on and shine, until the day be fully come. 
But the ways of the ungodly are dark; they know not how they stumble. 
My son, attend to my speech; and apply your ear to my words: 
that your fountains may not fail you; keep them in your heart. 
For they are life to those that find them, and health to all their flesh. 
Keep your heart with the utmost care; for out of these are the issues of life. 
Remove from you a froward mouth, and put far away from you unjust lips. 
Let your eyes look right on, and let your eyelids assent to just things. 
Make straight paths for your feet, and order your ways aright. 
Turn not aside to the right hand nor to the left, but turn away your foot from an evil way: for God knows the ways on the right hand, but those on the left are crooked: and he will make your ways straight, and will guide your steps in peace. 
