Kings I.
Chapter 15.
And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over Israel: and now hear the voice of the Lord. 
Thus said the Lord of hosts, Now will I take vengeance for what Amalec did to Israel, when he met him in the way as he came up out of Egypt. 
And now go, and you shall strike Amalec and Hierim and all that belongs to him, and you shall not save anything of him alive, but you shall utterly destroy him: and you shall devote him and all his to destruction, and you shall spare nothing belonging to him; and you shall kill both man and woman, and infant and suckling, and calf and sheep, and camel and ass. 
And Saul summoned the people, and he numbered them in Galgala, four hundred thousand regular troops, and Juda thirty thousand regular troops. 
And Saul came to the cities of Amalec, and laid wait in the valley. 
And Saul said to the Kinite, Go, and depart out of the midst of the Amalekites, lest I put you with them; for you dealt mercifully with the children of Israel when they went up out of Egypt. So the Kinite departed from the midst of Amalec. 
And Saul struck Amalec from Evilat to Sur fronting Egypt. 
And he took Agag the king of Amalec alive, and he killed all the people and Hierim with the edge of the sword. 
And Saul and all the people saved Agag alive, and the best of the flocks, and of the herds, and of the fruits, of the vineyards, and of all the good things; and they would not destroy them: but every worthless and refuse thing they destroyed. 
And the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, 
I have repented that I have made Saul to be king: for he has turned back from following me, and has not kept my word. And Samuel was grieved, and cried to the Lord all night. 
And Samuel rose early and went to meet Israel in the morning, and it was told Saul, saying, Samuel has come to Carmel, and he has raised up help for himself: and he turned his chariot, and came down to Galgala to Saul; and, behold, he was offering up a whole burnt offering to the Lord, the chief of the spoils which he brought out of Amalec. 
And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord: I have performed all that the Lord said. 
And Samuel said, What then is the bleating of this flock in my ears, and the sound of the oxen which I hear? 
And Saul said, I have brought them out of Amalec, that which the people preserved, even the best of the sheep, and of the cattle, that it might be sacrificed to the Lord your God, and the rest have I utterly destroyed. 
And Samuel said to Saul, Stay, and I will tell you what the Lord has said to me this night: and he said to him, Say on. 
And Samuel said to Saul, Are you not little in his eyes, though a leader of one of the tribes of Israel? and yet the Lord anointed you to be king over Israel. 
And the Lord sent you on a journey, and said to you, Go, and utterly destroy: you shall kill the sinners against me, even the Amalekites; and you shall war against them until you have consumed them. 
And why did not you listen to the voice of the Lord, but did haste to fasten upon the spoils, and did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord? 
And Saul said to Samuel, Because I listened to the voice of the people: yet I went the way by which the Lord sent me, and I brought Agag the king of Amalec, and I destroyed Amalec. 
But the people took of the spoils the best flocks and herds out of that which was destroyed, to sacrifice before the Lord our God in Galgal. 
And Samuel said, Does the Lord take pleasure in whole burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in hearing the words of the Lord? behold, obedience is better than a good sacrifice, and hearkening than the fat of rams. 
For sin is as divination; idols bring on pain and grief. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, the Lord also shall reject you from being king over Israel. 
And Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned, in that I have transgressed the word of the Lord and your direction; for I feared the people, and I listened to their voice. 
And now remove, I pray you, my sin, and turn back with me, and I will worship the Lord your God. 
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not turn back with you, for you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord will reject you from being king over Israel. 
And Samuel turned his face to depart, and Saul caught hold of the skirt of his garment, and tore it. 
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has tore your kingdom from Israel out of your hand this day, and will give it to your neighbour who is better than you. 
And Israel shall be divided to two: and God will not turn nor repent, for he is not as a man to repent. 
And Saul said, I have sinned; yet honour me, I pray you, before the elders of Israel, and before my people; and turn back with me, and I will worship the Lord your God. 
So Samuel turned back after Saul, and he worshipped the Lord. 
And Samuel said, Bring me Agag the king of Amalec: and Agag came to him trembling; and Agag said Is death thus bitter? 
And Samuel said to Agag, As your sword has bereaved women of their children, so shall your mother be made childless amongst women: and Samuel killed Agag before the Lord in Galgal. 
And Samuel departed to Armathaim, and Saul went up to his house at Gabaa. 
And Samuel did not see Saul again till the day of his death, for Samuel mourned after Saul, and the Lord repented that he had made Saul king over Israel. 
