Exodus.
Chapter 19.
And in the third month of the departure of the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, on the same day, they came into the wilderness of Sina. 
And they departed from Raphidin, and came into the wilderness of Sina, and there Israel encamped before the mountain. 
And Moses went up to the mount of God, and God called him out of the mountain, saying, These things shall you say to the house of Jacob, and you shall report them to the children of Israel. 
You⌃ have seen all that I have done to the Egyptians, and I took you up as upon eagles' wings, and I brought you near to myself. 
And now if you⌃ will indeed hear my voice, and keep my covenant, you⌃ shall be to me a peculiar people above all nations; for the whole earth is mine. 
And you⌃ shall be to me a royal priesthood and a holy nation: these words shall you speak to the children of Israel. 
And Moses came and called the elders of the people, and he set before them all these words, which God appointed them. 
And all the people answered with one accord, and said, All things that God has spoken, we will do and listen to: and Moses reported these words to God. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Behold! I come to you in a pillar of a cloud, that the people may hear me speaking to you, and may believe you for ever: and Moses reported the words of the people to the Lord. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Go down and solemnly charge the people, and sanctify them today and to-morrow, and let them wash their garments. 
And let them be ready against the third day, for on the third day the Lord will descend upon mount Sina before all the people. 
And you shall separate the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves that you⌃ go not up into the mountain, nor touch any part of it: every one that touches the mountain shall surely die. 
A hand shall not touch it, for every one that touches shall be stoned with stones or shot through with a dart, whether beast or whether man, it shall not live: when the voices and trumpets and cloud depart from off the mountain, they shall come up on the mountain. 
And Moses went down from the mountain to the people, and sanctified them, and they washed their clothes. 
And he said to the people, Be ready: for three days come not near to a woman. 
And it came to pass on the third day, as the morning drew near, there were voices and lightnings and a dark cloud on mount Sina: the voice of the trumpet sounded loud, and all the people in the camp trembled. 
And Moses led the people forth out of the camp to meet God, and they stood by under the camp. 
The mount of Sina was altogether on a smoke, because God had descended upon it in fire; and the smoke went up as the smoke of a furnace, and the people were exceedingly amazed. 
And the sounds of the trumpet were waxing very much louder. Moses spoke, and God answered him with a voice. 
And the Lord came down upon mount Sina on the top of the mountain; and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. 
And God spoke to Moses, saying, Go down, and solemnly charge the people, lest at any time they draw near to God to gaze, and a multitude of them fall. 
And let the priests that draw near to the Lord God sanctify themselves, destroy some of them. 
And Moses said to God, The people will not be able to approach to the mount of Sina, for you have solemnly charged us, saying, Set bounds to the mountain and sanctify it. 
And the Lord said to him, Go, descend, and come up you and Aaron with you; but let not the priests and the people force their way to come up to God, lest the Lord destroy some of them. 
And Moses went down to the people, and spoke to them. 
