Deuteronomy.
Chapter 23.
He that is fractured or mutilated in his private parts shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord. 
One born of a harlot shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord. 
The Ammanite and Moabite shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord, even until the tenth generation he shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord, even for ever: 
because they met you not with bread and water by the way, when you⌃ went out of Egypt; and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor of Mesopotamia to curse you. 
But the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam; and the Lord your God changed the curses into blessings, because the Lord your God loved you. 
You shall not speak peaceably or profitably to them all your days for ever. 
You shall not abhor an Edomite, because he is your brother; you shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you were a stranger in his land. 
If sons be born to them, in the third generation they shall enter into the assembly of the Lord. 
And if you should go forth to engage with your enemies, then you shall keep you from every wicked thing. 
If there should be in you a man who is not clean by reason of his issue by night, then he shall go forth out of the camp, and he shall not enter into the camp. 
And it shall come to pass towards evening he shall wash his body with water, and when the sun has gone down, he shall go into the camp. 
And you shall have a place outside of the camp, and you shall go out there, 
and you shall have a trowel on your girdle; and it shall come to pass when you would relieve yourself abroad, that you shall dig with it, and shall bring back the earth and cover your nuisance. 
Because the Lord your God walks in your camp to deliver you, and to give up your enemy before your face; and your camp shall be holy, and there shall not appear in you a disgraceful thing, and so he shall turn away from you. 
You shall not deliver a servant to his master, who coming from his master attaches himself to you. 
He shall dwell with you, he shall dwell amongst you where he shall please; you shall not afflict him. 
There shall not be a harlot of the daughters of Israel, and there shall not be a fornicator of the sons of Israel; there shall not be an idolatress of the daughters of Israel, and there shall not be an initiated person of the sons of Israel. 
You shall not bring the hire of a harlot, nor the price of a dog into the house of the Lord your God, for any vow; because even both are an abomination to the Lord your God. 
You shall not lend to your brother on usury of silver, or usury of meat, or usury of any thing which you may lend out. 
You may lend on usury to a stranger, but to your brother you shall not lend on usury; that the Lord your God may bless you in all your works upon the land, into which you are entering to inherit it. 
And if you will vow a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay to pay it; for the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and otherwise it shall be sin in you. 
But if you should be unwilling to vow, it is not sin in you. 
You shall observe the words that proceed from between your lips; and as you have vowed a gift to the Lord God, so shall you do that which you have spoken with your mouth. 
