Leviticus.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
The soul which shall have sinned, and wilfully overlooked the commandments of the Lord, and shall have dealt falsely in the affairs of his neighbour in the matter of a deposit, or concerning fellowship, or concerning plunder, or has in anything wronged his neighbour, 
or has found that which was lost, and shall have lied concerning it, and shall have sworn unjustly concerning any one of all the things, whatever a man may do, so as to sin hereby; 
it shall come to pass, whenever he shall have sinned, and transgressed, that he shall restore the plunder which he has seized, or redress the injury which he has committed, or restore the deposit which was entrusted to him, or the lost article which he has found of any kind, about which he swore unjustly, he shall even restore it in full; and he shall add to it a fifth part besides; he shall restore it to him whose it is in the day in which he happens to be convicted. 
And he shall bring to the Lord for his trespass, a ram of the flock, without blemish, of value to the amount of the thing in which he trespassed. 
And the priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, and he shall be forgiven for any one of all the things which he did and trespassed in it. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Charge Aaron and his sons, saying, 
This is the law of whole burnt offering; this is the whole burnt offering in its burning on the altar all the night till the morning; and the fire of the altar shall burn on it, it shall not be put out. 
And the priest shall put on the linen tunic, and he shall put the linen drawers on his body; and shall take away that which has been thoroughly burnt, which the fire shall have consumed, even the whole burnt offering from the altar, and he shall put it near the altar. 
And he shall put off his robe, and put on another robe, and he shall take forth the offering that has been burnt without the camp into a clean place. 
And the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it, and shall not be extinguished; and the priest shall burn on it wood every morning, and shall heap on it the whole burnt offering, and shall lay on it the fat of the peace-offering. 
And the fire shall always burn on the altar; it shall not be extinguished. 
This is the law of the sacrifice, which the sons of Aaron shall bring near before the Lord, before the altar. 
And he shall take from it a handful of the fine flour of the sacrifice with its oil, and with all its frankincense, which are upon the sacrifice; and he shall offer up on the altar a burnt offering as a sweet smelling savour, a memorial of it to the Lord. 
And Aaron and his sons shall eat that which is left of it: it shall be eaten without leaven in a holy place, they shall eat it in the court of the tabernacle of witness. 
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as a portion to them of the burnt offerings of the Lord: it is most holy, as the offering for sin, and as the offering for trespass. 
Every male of the priests shall eat it: it is a perpetual ordinance throughout your generations of the burnt offerings of the Lord; whoever shall touch them shall be hallowed. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
This is the gift of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to the Lord in the day in which you shall anoint him; the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sacrifice continually, the half of it in the morning, and the half of it in the evening. 
It shall be made with oil in a frying-pan; he shall offer it kneaded and in rolls, an offering of fragments, an offering of a sweet savour to the Lord. 
The anointed priest who is in his place, one of his sons, shall offer it: it is a perpetual statute, it shall all be consumed. 
And every sacrifice of a priest shall be thoroughly burnt, and shall not be eaten. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin-offering; —in the place where they kill the whole burnt offering, they shall kill the sin-offerings before the Lord: they are most holy. 
The priest that offers it shall eat it: in a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of witness. 
Every one that touches the flesh of it shall be holy, and on whoever’s garment any of its blood shall have been sprinkled, whoever shall have it sprinkled, shall be washed in the holy place. 
And the earthen vessel, in whichever it shall have been sodden, shall be broken; and if it shall have been sodden in a brazen vessel, he shall scour it and wash it with water. 
Every male amongst the priests shall eat it: it is most holy to the Lord. 
And no offerings for sin, of whose blood there shall be brought any into the tabernacle of witness to make atonement in the holy place, shall be eaten: they shall be burnt with fire. 
And this is the law of the ram for the trespass-offering; it is most holy. 
In the place where they kill the whole burnt offering, they shall kill the ram of the trespass-offering before the Lord, and he shall pour out the blood at the bottom of the altar round about. 
And he shall offer all the fat from it; and the loins, and all the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, that which is upon the thighs, and the caul upon the liver with the kidney, he shall take them away. 
And the priest shall offer them on the altar a burnt offering to the Lord; it is for trespass. 
Every male of the priest shall eat them, in the holy place they shall eat them: they are most holy. 
As the sin-offering, so also is the trespass-offering. There is one law of them; the priest who shall make atonement with it, his it shall be. 
And as for the priest who offers a man's whole burnt offering, the skin of the whole burnt offering which he offers, shall be his. 
And every sacrifice which shall be prepared in the oven, and every one which shall be prepared on the hearth, or on a frying-pan, it is the property of the priest that offers it; it shall be his. 
And every sacrifice made up with oil, or not made up with oil, shall belong to the sons of Aaron, an equal portion to each. 
