Chronicles I.
Chapter 2.
These are the names of the sons of Israel; 
Ruben, Symeon, Levi, Juda, Issachar, Zabulon, Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Nephthali, Gad, Aser. 
The sons of Juda; Er, Aunan, Selom. These three were born to him of the daughter of Sava the Chananitish woman: and Er, the firstborn of Juda, was wicked before the Lord, and he killed him. 
And Thamar his daughter-in-law bore to him Phares, and Zara: all the sons of Juda were five. 
The sons of Phares, Esrom, and Jemuel. 
And the sons of Zara, Zambri, and Aetham, and Aemuan, and Calchal, and Darad, in all five. 
And the sons of Charmi; Achar the troubler of Israel, who was disobedient in the accursed thing. 
And the sons of Aetham; Azarias, 
and the sons of Esrom who were born to him; Jerameel, and Aram, and Chaleb. 
And Aram begot Aminadab, and Aminadab begot Naasson, chief of the house of Juda. 
And Naasson begot Salmon, and Salmon begot Booz, 
and Booz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jessae. 
And Jessae begot his firstborn Eliab, Aminadab was the second, Samaa the third, 
Nathanael the fourth, Zabdai the fifth, 
Asam the sixth, David the seventh. 
And their sister was Saruia, and another Abigaia: and the sons of Saruia were Abisa, and Joab, and Asael, three. 
And Abigaia bore Amessab: and the father of Amessab was Jothor the Ismaelite. 
And Chaleb the son of Esrom took Gazuba to wife, and Jerioth: and these were her sons; Jasar, and Subab, and Ardon. 
And Gazuba died; and Chaleb took to himself Ephrath, and she bore to him Or. 
And Or begot Uri, and Uri begot Beseleel. 
And after this Esron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Galaad, and he took her when he was sixty-five years old; and she bore him Seruch. 
And Seruch begot Jair, and he had twenty-three cities in Galaad. 
And he took Gedsur and Aram, the towns of Jair from them; with Canath and its towns, sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir the father of Galaad. 
And after the death of Esron, Chaleb came to Ephratha; and the wife of Esron was Abia; and she bore him Ascho the father of Thecoe. 
And the sons of Jerameel the firstborn of Esron were, the firstborn Ram, and Banaa, and Aram, and Asan his brother. 
And Jerameel had another wife, and her name was Atara: she is the mother of Ozom. 
And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerameel were Maas, and Jamin, and Acor. 
And the sons of Ozom were, Samai, and Jadae: and the sons of Samai; Nadab, and Abisur. 
And the name of the wife of Abisur was Abichaia, and she bore him Achabar, and Moel. 
And the sons of Nadab; Salad and Apphain; and Salad died without children. 
And the sons of Apphain, Isemiel; and the sons of Isemiel, Sosan; and the sons of Sosan, Dadai. 
And the sons of Dadai, Achisamas, Jether, Jonathan: and Jether died childless. 
And the sons of Jonathan; Phaleth, and Hozam. These were the sons of Jerameel. 
And Sosan had no sons, but daughters. And Sosan had an Egyptian servant, and his name was Jochel. 
And Sosan gave his daughter to Jochel his servant to wife; and she bore him Ethi. 
And Ethi begot Nathan, and Nathan begot Zabed, 
and Zabed begot Aphamel, and Aphamel begot Obed. 
And Obed begot Jeu, and Jeu begot Azarias. 
And Azarias begot Chelles, and Chelles begot Eleasa, 
and Eleasa begot Sosomai, and Sosomai begot Salum, 
and Salum begot Jechemias, and Jechemias begot Elisama, and Elisama begot Ismael. 
And the sons of Chaleb the brother of Jerameel were, Marisa his firstborn, he is the father of Ziph:—and the sons of Marisa the father of Chebron. 
And the sons of Chebron; Core, and Thapphus, and Recom, and Samaa. 
And Samaa begot Raem the father of Jeclan: and Jeclan begot Samai. 
And his son was Maon: and Maon is the father of Baethsur. 
And Gaepha the concubine of Chaleb bore Aram, and Mosa, and Gezue. 
And the sons of Addai were Ragem, and Joatham, and Sogar, and Phalec, and Gaepha, and Sagae. 
And Chaleb's concubine Mocha bore Saber, and Tharam. 
She bore also Sagae the father of Madmena, and Sau the father of Machabena, and the father of Gaebal: and the daughter of Chaleb was Ascha. 
These were the sons of Chaleb: the sons of Or the firstborn of Ephratha; Sobal the father of Cariathiarim, 
Salomon the father of Baetha, Lammon the father of Baethalaem, and Arim the father of Bethgedor. 
And the sons of Sobal the father of Cariathiarim were Araa, and Aesi, and Ammanith, 
and Umasphae, cities of Jair; Aethalim, and Miphithim, and Hesamathim, and Hemasaraim; from these went forth the Sarathaeans, and the sons of Esthaam. 
The sons of Salomon; Baethalaem, the Netophathite, Ataroth of the house of Joab, and half of the family of Malathi, Esari. 
The families of the scribes dwelling in Jabis; Thargathiim, and Samathiim, and Sochathim, these are the Kinaeans that came of Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab. 
