Nehemiah.
Chapter 7.
And it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, 
that I gave charge to Ananias my brother, and Ananias the ruler of the palace, over Jerusalem: for he was a true man, and one that feared God beyond many. 
And I said to them, The gates of Jerusalem shall not be opened till sunrise; and while they are still watching, let the doors be shut, and bolted; and set watches of them that dwell in Jerusalem, every man at his post, and every man over against his house. 
Now the city was wide and large; and the people were few in it, and the houses were not built. 
And God put it into my heart, and I gathered the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, into companies: and I found a register of the company that came up first, and I found written in it as follows: 
Now these are the children of the country, that came up from captivity, of the number which Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon carried away, and they returned to Jerusalem and to Juda, every man to his city; 
with Zorobabel, and Jesus, and Neemia, Azaria, and Reelma, Naemani, Mardochaeus, Balsan, Maspharath, Esdra, Boguia, Inaum, Baana, Masphar, men of the people of Israel. 
The children of Phoros, two thousand and one hundred and seventy-two. 
The children of Saphatia, three hundred and seventy-two. 
The children of Era, six hundred and fifty-two. 
The children of Phaath Moab, with the children of Jesus and Joab, two thousand and six hundred and eighteen. 
The children of Aelam, a thousand and two hundred and fifty-four. 
The children of Zathuia, eight hundred and forty-five. 
The children of Zacchu, seven hundred and sixty. 
The children of Banui, six hundred and forty-eight. 
The children of Bebi, six hundred and twenty-eight. 
The children of Asgad, two thousand and three hundred and twenty-two. 
The children of Adonicam, six hundred and sixty-seven. 
The children of Bagoi, two thousand and sixty-seven. 
The children of Edin, six hundred and fifty-five. 
The children of Ater, the son of Ezekias, ninety-eight. 
The children of Esam, three hundred and twenty-eight. 
The children of Besei, three hundred and twenty-four. 
The children of Ariph, a hundred and twelve: the children of Asen, two hundred and twenty-three. 
The children of Gabaon, ninety-five. 
The children of Baethalem, a hundred and twenty-three: the children of Atopha, fifty-six. 
The children of Anathoth, a hundred and twenty-eight. 
The men of Bethasmoth, forty-two. 
The men of Cariatharim, Caphira, and Beroth, seven hundred and forty-three. 
The men of Arama and Gabaa, six hundred and twenty. 
The men of Machemas, a hundred and twenty-two. 
The men of Baethel and Ai, a hundred and twenty-three. 
The men of Nabia, a hundred an fifty-two. 
The men of Elamaar, one thousand and two hundred and fifty-two. 
The children of Eram, three hundred and twenty. 
The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five. 
The children of Lodadid and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-one. 
The children of Sanana, three thousand and nine hundred and thirty. 
The priests; the sons of Jodae, pertaining to the house of Jesus, nine hundred and seventy-three. 
The children of Emmer, one thousand and fifty-two. 
The children of Phaseur, one thousand and two hundred and forty-seven. 
The children of Eram, a thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites; the children of Jesus the son of Cadmiel, with the children of Uduia, seventy-four. 
The singers; the children of Asaph, a hundred and forty-eight. 
The porters; the children of Salum, the children of Ater, the children of Telmon, the children of Acub, the children of Atita, the children of Sabi, a hundred and thirty-eight. 
The Nathinim; the children of Sea, the children of Aspha, the children of Tabaoth, 
the children of Kiras, the children of Asuia, the children of Phadon, 
the children of Labana, the children of Agaba, the children of Selmei, 
the children of Anan, the children of Gadel, the children of Gaar, 
the children of Raaia, the children of Rasson, the children of Necoda, 
the children of Gezam, the children of Ozi, the children of Phese, 
the children of Besi, the children of Meinon, the children of Nephosasi, 
the children of Bacbuc, the children of Achipha, the children of Arur, 
the children of Basaloth, the children of Mida, the children of Adasan, 
the children of Barcue, the children of Sisarath, the children of Thema, 
the children of Nisia, the children of Atipha. 
The children of the servants of Solomon; the children of Sutei, the children of Sapharat, the children of Pherida, 
the children of Jelel, the children of Dorcon, the children of Gadael, 
the children of Saphatia, the children of Ettel, the children of Phacarath, the children of Sabaim, the children of Emim. 
All the Nathinim, and children of the servants of Solomon, were three hundred and ninety-two. 
And these went up from Thelmeleth, Thelaresa, Charub, Eron, Jemer: but they could not declare the houses of their families, or their seed, whether they were of Israel. 
The children of Dalaia, the children of Tobia, the children of Necoda, six hundred and forty-two. 
And of the priests; the children of Ebia, the children of Acos, the children of Berzelli, for they took wives of the daughters of Berzelli the Galaadite, and they were called by their name. 
These sought the pedigree of their company, and it was not found, and they were removed as polluted from the priesthood. 
And the Athersastha said, that they should not eat of the most holy things, until a priest should stand up to give light. 
And all the congregation was about forty-two thousand and three hundred and sixty, 
besides their menservants and their maidservants: these were seven thousand and three hundred and thirty seven: and the singing-men and singing-women, two hundred and forty-five. 
Two thousand and seven hundred asses. 
And part of the heads of families gave into the treasury to Neemias for the work a thousand pieces of gold, fifty bowls, and thirty priests' garments. 
And some of the heads of families gave into the treasuries of the work, twenty thousand pieces of gold, and two thousand and three hundred pounds of silver. 
And the rest of the people gave twenty thousand pieces of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priests' garments. 
And the priests, and Levites, and porters, and singers, and some of the people, and the Nathinim, and all Israel, lived in their cities. 
