Zacharias.
Chapter 11.
Open your doors, O Libanus, and let the fire devour your cedars. 
Let the pine howl, because the cedar has fallen; for the mighty men have been greatly afflicted: howl, you⌃ oaks of the land of Basan; for the thickly planted forest has been torn down. 
There is a voice of the shepherds mourning; for their greatness is brought low: a voice of roaring lions; for the pride of Jordan is brought down. 
Thus says the Lord Almighty, Feed the sheep of the slaughter; 
which their possessors have slain, and have not repented: and they that sold them said, Blessed be the Lord; for we have become rich: and their shepherds have suffered no sorrow for them. 
Therefore I will no longer have mercy upon the inhabitants of the land, says the Lord: but, behold, I will deliver up the men every one into the hand of his neighbour, and into the hand of his king; and they shall destroy the land, and I will not rescue out of their hand. 
And I will tend the flock of slaughter in the land of Chanaan: and I will take for myself two rods; the one I called Beauty, and the other I called Line; and I will tend the flock. 
And I will cut off three shepherds in one month; and my soul shall grieve over them, for their souls cried out against me. 
And I said, I will not tend you: that which dies, let it die; and that which falls off, let it fall off; and let the rest eat every one the flesh of his neighbour. 
And I will take my beautiful staff, and cast it away, that I may break my covenant which I made with all the people. 
And it shall be broken in that day; and the Chananites, the sheep that are kept for me, shall know that it is the word of the Lord. 
And I will say to them, If it be good in your eyes, give me my price, or refuse it. And they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. 
And the Lord said to me, Drop them into the furnace, and I will see if it is good metal, as I was proved for their sakes. And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and cast them into the furnace in the house of the Lord. 
And I cast away my second rod, even Line, that I might break the possession between Juda and Israel. 
And the Lord said to me, Take yet to you shepherd's implements belonging to an unskillful shepherd. 
For, behold, I will raise up a shepherd against the land: he shall not visit that which is perishing, and he shall not seek that which is scattered, and he shall not heal that which is bruised, nor guide that which is whole: but he shall devour the flesh of the choice ones, and shall dislocate the joints of their necks. 
Alas for the vain shepherds that have forsaken the sheep! the sword shall be upon the arms of such a one, and upon his right eye: his arm shall be completely withered, and his right eye shall be utterly darkened. 
