Exodus.
Chapter 37.
And they made ten curtains for the tabernacle; 
of eight and twenty cubits the length of one curtain: the same measure was to all, and the breadth of one curtain was of four cubits. 
And they made the veil of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined, the woven work with cherubs. 
And they put it on four posts of incorruptible wood overlaid with gold; and their chapiters were gold, and their four sockets were silver. 
And they made the veil of the door of the tabernacle of witness of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined, woven work with cherubs, 
and their posts five, and the rings; and they gilded their chapiters and their clasps with gold, and they had five sockets of brass. 
And they made the court towards the south; the curtains of the court of fine linen twined, a hundred cubits every way, 
and their posts twenty, and their sockets twenty; 
and on the north side a hundred every way, and on the south side a hundred every way, and their posts twenty and their sockets twenty. 
And on the west side curtains of fifty cubits, their posts ten and their sockets ten. 
And on the east side curtains of fifty cubits of fifteen cubits behind, 
and their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And at the second back on this side and on that by the gate of the court, curtains of fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three; 
all the curtains of the tabernacle of fine linen twined. 
And the sockets of their pillars of brass, and their hooks of silver, and their chapiters overlaid with silver, and all the posts of the court overlaid with silver: 
and the veil of the gate of the court, the work of an embroiderer of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined; the length of twenty cubits, and the height and the breadth of five cubits, made equal to the curtains of the court; 
and their pillars four, and their sockets four of brass, and their hooks of silver, and their chapiters overlaid with silver. 
And all the pins of the court round about of brass, and they were overlaid with silver. 
And this was the construction of the tabernacle of witness, accordingly as it was appointed to Moses; so that the public service should belong to the Levites, through Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
And Beseleel the son of Urias of the tribe of Juda, did as the Lord commanded Moses. 
And Eliab the son of Achisamach of the tribe of Dan was there, who was chief artificer in the woven works and needle-works and embroideries, in weaving with the scarlet and fine linen. 
