Exodus.
Chapter 34.
And the Lord said to Moses, Hew for yourself two tables of stone, as also the first were, and come up to me to the mountain; and I will write upon the tables the words, which were on the first tables, which you broke. 
And be ready by the morning, and you shall go up to the mount Sina, and shall stand there for me on the top of the mountain. 
And let no one go up with you, nor be seen in all the mountain; and let not the sheep and oxen feed near that mountain. 
And Moses hewed two tables of stone, as also the first were; and Moses having arisen early, went up to the mount Sina, as the Lord appointed him; and Moses took the two tables of stone. 
And the Lord descended in a cloud, and stood near him there, and called by the name of the Lord. 
And the Lord passed by before his face, and proclaimed, The Lord God, pitiful and merciful, longsuffering and very compassionate, and true, 
and keeping justice and mercy for thousands, taking away iniquity, and unrighteousness, and sins; and he will not clear the guilty; bringing the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and to the children's children, to the third and fourth generation. 
And Moses hasted, and bowed to the earth and worshipped; 
and said, If I have found grace before you, let my Lord go with us; for the people is stiff-necked: and you shall take away our sins and our iniquities, and we will be your. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I establish a covenant for you in the presence of all your people; I will do glorious things, which have not been done in all the earth, or in any nation; and all the people amongst whom you are shall see the works of the Lord, that they are wonderful, which I will do for you. 
Do you take heed to all things whatever I command you: behold, I cast out before your face the Amorite and the Chananite and the Pherezite, and the Chettite, and Evite, and Gergesite and Jebusite: 
take heed to yourself, lest at any time you make a covenant with the dwellers on the land, into which you are entering, lest it be to you a stumbling block amongst you. 
You⌃ shall destroy their altars, and break in pieces their pillars, and you⌃ shall cut down their groves, and the graven images of their gods you⌃ shall burn with fire. 
For you⌃ shall not worship strange gods, for the Lord God, a jealous name, is a jealous God; 
lest at any time you make a covenant with the dwellers on the land, and they go a whoring after their gods, and sacrifice to their gods, and they call you, and you should eat of their feasts, 
and you should take of their daughters to your sons, and you should give of your daughters to their sons; and your daughters should go a whoring after their gods, and your sons should go a whoring after their gods. 
And you shall not make to yourself molten gods. 
And you shall keep the feast of unleavened bread: seven days shall you eat unleavened bread, as I have charged you, at the season in the month of new corn; for in the month of new corn you came out from Egypt. 
The males are mine, everything that opens the womb; every firstborn of oxen, and every firstborn of sheep. 
And the firstborn of an ass you shall redeem with a sheep, and if you will not redeem it you shall pay a price: every firstborn of your sons shall you redeem: you shall not appear before me empty. 
Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest: there shall be rest in seed time and harvest. 
And you shall keep to me the feast of weeks, the beginning of wheat harvest; and the feast of ingathering in the middle of the year. 
Three times in the year shall every male of your appear before the Lord the God of Israel. 
For when I shall have cast out the nations before your face, and shall have enlarged your coasts, no one shall desire your land, whenever you may go up to appear before the Lord your God, three times in the year. 
You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifices with leaven, neither shall the sacrifices of the feast of the passover remain till the morning. 
The first fruits of your land shall you put into the house of the Lord your God: you shall not boil a lamb in his mother's milk. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Write these words for yourself, for on these words I have established a covenant with you and with Israel. 
And Moses was there before the Lord forty days, and forty nights; he did not eat bread, and he did not drink water; and he wrote upon the tables these words of the covenant, the ten sayings. 
And when Moses went down from the mountain, there were the two tables in the hands of Moses, —as then he went down from the mountain, Moses knew not that the appearance of the skin of his face was glorified, when God spoke to him. 
And Aaron and all the elders of Israel saw Moses, and the appearance of the skin of his face was made glorious, and they feared to approach him. 
And Moses called them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the synagogue turned towards him, and Moses spoke to them. 
And afterwards all the children of Israel came to him, and he commanded them all things, whatever the Lord had commanded him in the mount of Sina. 
And when he ceased speaking to them, he put a veil on his face. 
And whenever Moses went in before the Lord to speak to him, he took off the veil till he went out, and he went forth and spoke to all the children of Israel whatever the Lord commanded him. 
And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that it was glorified; and Moses put the veil over his face, till he went in to speak with him. 
