Leviticus.
Chapter 2.
And if a soul bring a gift, a sacrifice to the Lord, his gift shall be fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and shall put frankincense on it: it is a sacrifice. 
And he shall bring it to the priests the sons of Aaron: and having taken from it a handful of the fine flour with the oil, and all its frankincense, then the priest shall put the memorial of it on the altar: it is a sacrifice, an odour of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And the remainder of the sacrifice shall be for Aaron and his sons, a most holy portion from the sacrifices of the Lord. 
And if he bring as a gift a sacrifice baked from the oven, a gift to the Lord of fine flour, he shall bring unleavened bread kneaded with oil, and unleavened cakes anointed with oil. 
And if your gift be a sacrifice from a pan, it is fine flour mingled with oil, unleavened offerings. 
And you shall break them into fragments and pour oil upon them: it is a sacrifice to the Lord. 
And if your gift be a sacrifice from the hearth, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. 
And he shall offer the sacrifice which he shall make of these to the Lord, and shall bring it to the priest. 
And the priest shall approach the altar, and shall take away from the sacrifice a memorial of it, and the priest shall place it on the altar: a burnt offering, a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And that which is left of the sacrifice shall be for Aaron and his sons, most holy from the burnt offerings of the Lord. 
You⌃ shall not leaven any sacrifice which you⌃ shall bring to the Lord; for as to any leaven, or any honey, you⌃ shall not bring of it to offer a gift to the Lord. 
You⌃ shall bring them in the way of fruits to the Lord, but they shall not be offered on the altar for a sweet smelling savour to the Lord. 
And every gift of your sacrifice shall be seasoned with salt; omit not the salt of the covenant of the Lord from your sacrifices: on every gift of yours you⌃ shall offer salt to the Lord your God. 
And if you would offer a sacrifice of first fruits to the Lord, it shall be new grains ground and roasted for the Lord; so shall you bring the sacrifice of the first fruits. 
And you shall pour oil upon it, and shall put frankincense on it: it is a sacrifice. 
And the priest shall offer the memorial of it taken from the grains with the oil, and all its frankincense: it is a burnt offering to the Lord. 
