Esias.
Chapter 23.
THE WORD CONCERNING TYRE. Howl, you⌃ ships of Carthage; for she has perished, and men no longer arrive from the land of the Citians: she is led captive. 
To whom are the dwellers in the island become like, the merchants of Phoenice, passing over the sea 
in great waters, a generation of merchants? as when the harvest is gathered in, so are these traders with the nations. 
Be ashamed, O Sidon: the sea has said, yes, the strength of the sea has said, I have not travailed, nor brought forth, nor have I brought up young men, nor reared virgins. 
Moreover when it shall be heard in Egypt, sorrow shall seize them for Tyre. 
Depart you⌃ to Carthage; howl, you⌃ that dwell in this island. 
Was not this your pride from the beginning, before she was given up? 
Who has devised this counsel against Tyre? Is she inferior? or has she no strength? her merchants were the glorious princes of the earth. 
The Lord of hosts has purposed to bring down all the pride of the glorious ones, and to disgrace every glorious thing on the earth. 
Till your land; for ships no more come out of Carthage. 
And your hand prevails no more by sea, which troubled kings: the Lord of hosts has given a command concerning Chanaan, to destroy the strength thereof. 
And men shall say, You⌃ shall no longer at all continue to insult and injure the daughter of Sidon: and if you depart to the Citians, neither there shall you have rest. 
And if you depart to the land of the Chaldeans, this also is laid waste by the Assyrians, for her wall is fallen. 
Howl, you⌃ ships of Carthage: for your strong hold is destroyed. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be left seventy years, as the time of a king, as the time of a man: and it shall come to pass after seventy years, that Tyre shall be as the song of a harlot. 
Take a harp, go about, O city, you harlot that have been forgotten; play well on the harp, sing many songs, that you may be remembered. 
And it shall come to pass after the seventy years, that God will visit Tyre, and she shall be again restored to her primitive state, and she shall be a mart for all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth. 
And her trade and her gain shall be holiness to the Lord: it shall not be gathered for them, but for those that dwell before the Lord, even all her trade, to eat and drink and be filled, and for a covenant and a memorial before the Lord. 
