Amos.
Chapter 7.
Thus has the Lord God showed me; and, behold, a swarm of locusts coming from the east; and, behold, one caterpillar, king Gog. 
And it came to pass when he had finished devouring the grass of the land, that I said, Lord God, be merciful; who shall raise up Jacob? for he is small in number. 
Repent, O Lord, for this. And this shall not be, says the Lord. 
Thus has the Lord showed me; and, behold, the Lord called for judgement by fire, and it devoured the great deep, and devoured the Lord's portion. 
Then I said, O Lord, cease, I pray you: who shall raise up Jacob? for he is small in number. Repent, O Lord, for this. 
This also shall not be, says the Lord. 
Thus the Lord showed me; and behold, he stood upon a wall of adamant, and in his hand was an adamant. 
And the Lord said to me, What see you, Amos? And I said, An adamant. And the Lord said to me, Behold, I appoint an adamant in the midst of my people Israel: I will not pass by them any more. 
And the joyful altars shall be abolished, and the sacrifices of Israel shall be set aside; and I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. 
Then Amasias the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos is forming conspiracies against you in the midst of the house of Israel: the land will be utterly unable to bear all his words. 
For thus says Amos, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall be led away captive from his land. 
And Amasias said to Amos, Go, seer, remove you into the land of Juda, and live there, and you shall prophesy there: 
but you shall no longer prophesy at Bethel: for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the royal house. 
And Amos answered, and said to Amasias, I was not a prophet, nor the son of a prophet; but I was a herdman, and a gatherer of sycamore fruits. 
And the Lord took me from the sheep, and the Lord said to me, Go, and prophesy to my people Israel. 
And now hear the word of the Lord: You say, Prophesy not to Israel, and raise not a tumult against the house of Jacob. 
Therefore thus says the Lord; Your wife shall be a harlot in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be measured with the line; and you shall die in an unclean land; and Israel shall be led captive out of his land. Thus has the Lord God showed me. 
