Ruth.
Chapter 2.
And Noemin had a friend an acquaintance of her husband, and the man was a mighty man of the kindred of Elimelech, and his name was Booz. 
And Ruth the Moabitess said to Noemin, Let me go now to the field, and I will glean amongst the ears behind the man with whoever I shall find favour: and she said to her, Go, daughter. 
And she went; and came and gleaned in the field behind the reapers; and she happened by chance to come on a portion of the land of Booz, of the kindred of Elimelech. 
And, behold, Booz came from Bethleem, and said to the reapers, The Lord be with you: and they said to him, The Lord bless you. 
And Booz said to his servant who was set over the reapers, Whose is this damsel? 
And his servant who was set over the reapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel who returned with Noemin out of the land of Moab. 
And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather amongst the sheaves after the reapers: and she came and stood from morning till evening, and rested not even a little in the field. 
And Booz said to Ruth, Hast you not heard, my daughter? go not to glean in another field; and depart not you hence, join yourself here with my damsels. 
Let your eyes be on the field where my men shall reap, and you shall go after them: behold, I have charged the young men not to touch you: and when you shall thirst, then you shall go to the vessels, and drink of that which the young men shall have drawn. 
And she fell upon her face, and did reverence to the ground, and said to him, How is it that I have found grace in your eyes, that you should take notice of me, whereas I am a stranger? 
And Booz answered and said to her, It has fully been told me how you have dealt with your mother-in-law after the death of your husband; and how you did leave your father and your mother, and the land of your birth, and came to a people whom you knew not before. 
The Lord recompense your work; may a full reward be given you of the Lord God of Israel, to whom you have come to trust under his wings. 
And she said, Let me find grace in your sight, my lord, because you have comforted me, and because you have spoken kindly to your handmaid, and behold, I shall be as one of your servants. 
And Booz said to her, Now it is time to eat; come here, and you shall eat of the bread, and you shall dip your morsel in the vinegar: and Ruth sat by the side of the reapers: and Booz handed her meal, and she ate, and was satisfied, and left. 
And she rose up to glean; and Booz charged his young men, saying, Let her even glean amongst the sheaves, and reproach her not. 
And do you⌃ by all means carry it for her, and you⌃ shall surely let fall for her some of that which is heaped up; and let her eat, and glean, and rebuke her not. 
So she gleaned in the field till evening, and beat out that she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barely. 
And she took it up, and went into the city: and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned, and Ruth brought forth and gave to her the food which she had left from what she had been satisfied with. 
And her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned today, and where have you wrought? blessed be he that took notice of you. And Ruth told her mother-in-law where she had wrought, and said, The name of the man with whom I wrought today is Booz. 
And Noemin said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed is he of the Lord, because he has not failed in his mercy with the living and with the dead: and Noemin said to her, The man is near akin to us, he is one of our relations. 
And Ruth said to her mother-in-law, Yes, he said also to me, Keep close to my damsels, until the men shall have finished all my reaping. 
And Noemin said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, It is well, daughter, that you went out with his damsels; thus they shall not meet you in another field. 
And Ruth joined herself to the damsels of Booz to glean until they had finished the barley harvest and the wheat harvest. 
