Proverbs.
Chapter 14.
Wise women build houses: but a foolish one digs hers down with her hands. 
He that walks uprightly fears the Lord; but he that is perverse in his ways shall be dishonoured. 
Out of the mouth of fools comes a rod of pride; but the lips of the wise preserve them. 
Where no oxen are, the cribs are clean; but where there is abundant produce, the strength of the ox is apparent. 
A faithful witness does not lie; but an unjust witness kindles falsehoods. 
You shall seek wisdom with bad men, and shall not find it; but discretion is easily available with the prudent. 
All things are adverse to a foolish man; but wise lips are the weapons of discretion. 
The wisdom of the prudent will understand their ways; but the folly of fools leads astray. 
The houses of transgressors will need purification; but the houses of the just are acceptable. 
If a man's mind is intelligent, his soul is sorrowful; and when he rejoices, he has no fellowship with pride. 
The houses of ungodly men shall be utterly destroyed; but the tabernacles of them that walk uprightly shall stand. 
There is a way which seems to be right with men, but the ends of it reach to the depths of hell. 
Grief mingles not with mirth; and joy in the end comes to grief. 
A stout-hearted man shall be filled with his own ways; and a good man with his own thoughts. 
The simple believes every word: but the prudent man betakes himself to afterthought. 
A wise man fears, and departs from evil; but the fool trusts in himself, and joins himself with the transgressor. 
A passionate man acts inconsiderately; but a sensible man bears up under many things. 
Fools shall have mischief for their portion; but the prudent shall take fast hold of understanding. 
Evil men shall fall before the good; and the ungodly shall attend at the gates of the righteous. 
Friends will hate poor friends; but the friends of the rich are many. 
He that dishonours the needy sins: but he that has pity on the poor is most blessed. 
They that go astray devise evils: but the good devise mercy and truth. The framers of evil do not understand mercy and truth: but compassion and faithfulness are with the framers of good. 
With every one who is careful there is abundance: but the pleasure-taking and indolent shall be in lack. 
A prudent man is the crown of the wise: but the occupation of fools is evil. 
A faithful witness shall deliver a soul from evil: but a deceitful man kindles falsehoods. 
In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence: and he leaves his children a support. 
The commandment of the Lord is a fountain of life; and it causes men to turn aside from the snare of death. 
In a populous nation is the glory of a king: but in the failure of people is the ruin of a prince. 
A man slow to wrath abounds in wisdom: but a man of impatient spirit is very foolish. 
A meek-spirited man is a healer of the heart: but a sensitive heart is a corruption of the bones. 
He that oppresses the needy provokes his Maker: but he that honours him has pity upon the poor. 
The ungodly shall be driven away in his wickedness: but he who is secure in his own holiness is just. 
There is wisdom in the good heart of a man: but in the heart of fools it is not discerned. 
Righteousness exalts a nation: but sins diminish tribes. 
An understanding servant is acceptable to a king; and by his good behaviour he removes disgrace. 
