Chronicles I.
Chapter 3.
Now these were the sons of David that were born to him in Chebron; the firstborn Amnon, born of Achinaam the Jezraelitess; the second Damniel, of Abigaia the Carmelitess. 
The third, Abessalom, the son of Mocha the daughter of Tholmai king of Gedsur; the fourth, Adonia the son of Aggith. 
The fifth, Saphatia, the son of Abital; the sixth, Jethraam, born of Agla his wife. 
Six were born to him in Chebron; and he reigned there seven years and six months: and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
And these were born to him in Jerusalem; Samaa, Sobab, Nathan, and Solomon; four of Bersabee the daughter of Amiel: 
and Ebaar, and Elisa, and Eliphaleth, 
and Nagai, and Naphec, and Japhie, 
and Helisama, and Eliada, and Eliphala, nine. 
All these were the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines, and there was also Themar their sister. 
The sons of Solomon; Roboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Josaphat his son, 
Joram his son, Ochozias his son, Joas his son, 
Amasias his son, Azarias his son, Joathan his son, 
Achaz his son, Ezekias his son, Manasses his son, 
Amon his son, Josia his son. 
And the sons of Josia; the firstborn Joanan, the second Joakim, the third Sedekias, the fourth Salum. 
And the sons of Joakim; Jechonias his son, Sedekias his son. 
And the sons of Jechonias; Asir, Salathiel his son, 
Melchiram, and Phadaias, and Sanesar, and Jekimia, and Hosamath, and Nabadias. 
And the sons of Phadaias; Zorobabel, and Semei: and the sons of Zorobabel; Mosollam, and Anania, and Salomethi was their sister. 
And Asube, and Ool, and Barachia, and Asadia, and Asobed, five. 
And the sons of Anania, Phalettia, and Jesias his son, Raphal his son, Orna his son, Abdia his son, Sechenias his son. 
And the son of Sechenias; Samaia: and the sons of Samaia; Chattus, and Joel, and Berri and Noadia, and Saphath, six. 
And the sons of Noadia: Elithenan, and Ezekia, and Ezricam, three. 
And the sons of Elithenan; Odolia, and Heliasebon, and Phadaia, and Akub, and Joanan, and Dalaaia, and Anan, seven. 
