Proverbs.
Chapter 19.
The folly of a man spoils his ways: and he blames God in his heart. 
Wealth acquires many friends; but the poor is deserted even of the friend he has. 
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that accuses unjustly shall not escape. 
Many court the favour of kings; but every bad man becomes a reproach to another man. 
Every one who hates his poor brother shall also be far from friendship. Good understanding will draw near to them that know it, and a sensible man will find it. He that does much harm perfects mischief; and he that used provoking words shall not escape. 
He that procures wisdom loves himself; and he that keeps wisdom shall find good. 
A false witness shall not be unpunished; and whoever shall kindle mischief shall perish by it. 
Delight does not suit a fool, nor is it seemly if a servant should begin to rule with haughtiness. 
A merciful man is longsuffering; and his triumph overtakes transgressors. 
The threatening of a king is like the roaring of a lion; but as dew on the grass, so is his favour. 
A foolish son is a disgrace to his father: vows paid out of the hire of a harlot are not pure. 
Fathers divide house and substance to their children: but a wife is suited to a man by the Lord. 
Cowardice possesses the effeminate man; and the soul of the sluggard shall hunger. 
He that keeps the commandment keeps his own soul; but he that despises his ways shall perish. 
He that has pity on the poor lends to the Lord; and he will recompense to him according to his gift. 
Chasten your son, for so he shall be hopeful; and be not exalted in your soul to haughtiness. 
A malicious man shall be severely punished, and if he commit injury, he shall also lose his life. 
Hear, son, the instruction of your father, that you may be wise at your latter end. 
There are many thoughts in a man's heart; but the counsel of the Lord abides for ever. 
Mercy is a fruit to a man: and a poor man is better than a rich liar. 
The fear of the Lord is life to a man: and he shall lodge without fear in places where knowledge is not seen. 
He that unjustly hides his hands in his bosom, will not even bring them up to his mouth. 
When a pestilent character is scourged, a simple man is made wiser: and if you reprove a wise man, he will understand discretion. 
He that dishonours his father, and drives away his mother, shall be disgraced and shall be exposed to reproach. 
A son who ceases to attend to the instruction of a father will cherish evil designs. 
He that becomes surety for a foolish child will despise the ordinance: and the mouth of ungodly men shall drink down judgement. 
Scourges are preparing for the intemperate, and punishments likewise for fools. 
