Esias.
Chapter 19.
THE VISION OF EGYPT. Behold, the Lord sits on a swift cloud, and shall come to Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and their heart shall faint within them. 
And the Egyptians shall be stirred up against the Egyptians: and a man shall fight against his brother, and a man against his neighbour, city against city, and law against law. 
And the spirit of the Egyptians shall be troubled within them; and I will frustrate their counsel: and they shall enquire of their gods and their images, and them that speak out of the earth, and them that have in them a divining spirit. 
And I will deliver Egypt into the hands of men, of cruel lords; and cruel kings shall rule over them: thus says the Lord of hosts. 
And the Egyptians shall drink the water that is by the sea, but the river shall fail, and be dried up. 
And the streams shall fail, and the canals of the river; and every reservoir of water shall be dried up, in every marsh also of reed and papyrus. 
And all the green herbage round about the river, and everything sown by the side of the river, shall be blasted with the wind and dried up. 
And the fishermen shall groan, and all that cast a hook into the river shall groan; they also that cast nets, and the anglers shall mourn. 
And shame shall come upon them that work fine flax, and them that make fine linen. 
And they that work at them shall be in pain, and all that make beer shall be grieved, and be pained in their souls. 
And the princes of Tanis shall be fools: as for the king's wise counsellors, their counsel shall be turned into folly: how will you⌃ say to the king, we are sons of wise men, sons of ancient kings? 
Where are now your wise men? and let them declare to you, and say, What has the Lord of hosts purposed upon Egypt? 
The princes of Tanis have failed, and the princes of Memphis are lifted up with pride, and they shall cause Egypt to wander by tribes. 
For the Lord has prepared for them a spirit of error, and they have caused Egypt to err in all their works, as one staggers who is drunken and vomits also. 
And there shall be no work to the Egyptians, which shall make head or tail, or beginning or end. 
But in that day the Egyptians shall be as women, in fear and in trembling because of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which he shall bring upon them. 
And the land of the Jews shall be for a terror to the Egyptians: whoever shall name it to them, they shall fear, because of the counsel which the Lord of hosts has purposed concerning it. 
In that day there shall be five cities in Egypt speaking the language of Chanaan, and swearing by the name of the Lord of hosts; one city shall be called the city of Asedec. 
In that day there shall be an altar to the Lord in the land of the Egyptians, and a pillar to the Lord by its border. 
And it shall be for a sign to the Lord for ever in the land of Egypt: for they shall presently cry to the Lord by reason of them that afflict them, and he shall send them a man who shall save them; he shall judge and save them. 
And the Lord shall be known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day; and they shall offer sacrifices, and shall vow vows to the Lord, and pay them. 
And the Lord shall strike the Egyptians with a stroke, and shall completely heal them: and they shall return to the Lord, and he shall hear them, and thoroughly heal them. 
In that day there shall be a way from Egypt to the Assyrians, and the Assyrians shall enter into Egypt, and the Egyptians shall go to the Assyrians, and the Egyptians shall serve the Assyrians. 
In that day shall Israel be third with the Egyptians and the Assyrians, blessed in the land which the Lord of hosts has blessed, 
saying, Blessed be my people that is in Egypt, and that is amongst the Assyrians, and Israel mine inheritance. 
