Jeremias.
Chapter 44.
And Sedekias the son of Josias reigned instead of Joakim, whom Nabuchodonosor appointed to reign over Juda. 
And he and his servants and the people of the land listened not to the words of the Lord, which he spoke by Jeremias. 
And king Sedekias sent Joachal son of Selemias and Sophonias the priest son of Maasaeas to Jeremias, saying, Pray now for us to the Lord. 
Now Jeremias came and went through the midst of the city: for they had not put him into the house of the prison. 
And the host of Pharao was come forth out of Egypt; and the Chaldeans heard the report of them, and they went up from Jerusalem. 
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremias, saying, 
Thus said the Lord; Thus shall you say to the king of Juda who sent to you, to seek me; Behold, the army of Pharao which is come forth to help you: they shall return to the land of Egypt: 
and the Chaldeans themselves shall turn again, and fight against this city, and take it, and burn it with fire. 
For thus says the Lord; Suppose not in your hearts, saying, The Chaldeans will certainly depart from us: for they shall not depart. 
And though you⌃ should strike the whole host of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there should be left a few wounded men, these should rise up each in his place, and burn this city with fire. 
And it came to pass, when the host of the Chaldeans had gone up from Jerusalem for fear of the host of Pharao, 
that Jeremias went forth from Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to buy thence a property in the midst of the people. 
And he was in the gate of Benjamin, and there was there a man with whom he lodged, Saruia the son of Selemias, the son of Ananias; and he caught Jeremias, saying, You are fleeing to the Chaldeans. 
And he said, It is false; I do not flee to the Chaldeans. But he listened not to him; and Saruia caught Jeremias, and brought him to the princes. 
And the princes were very angry with Jeremias, and struck him, and sent him into the house of Jonathan the scribe: for they had made this a prison. 
So Jeremias came into the dungeon, and into the cells, and he remained there many days. 
Then Sedekias sent, and called him; and the king asked him secretly, saying, Is there a word from the Lord? and he said, There is: you shall be delivered into the hands of the king of Babylon. 
And Jeremias said to the king, Wherein have I wronged you, or your servants, or this people, that you put me in prison? 
And where are your prophets who prophesied to you saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against this land? 
Now therefore, my lord the king, let my supplication come before your face: and why do you send me back to the house of Jonathan the scribe? and let me not on any account die there. 
Then the king commanded, and they cast him into the prison, and gave him a loaf a day out of the place where they bake, until the bread failed out of the city. So Jeremias continued in the court of the prison. 
