Kings IV.
Chapter 2.
And it came to pass, when the Lord was going to take Eliu with a whirlwind as it were into heaven, that Eliu and Elisaie went out of Galgala. 
And Eliu said to Elisaie, Stay here, I pray you; for God has sent me to Baethel. And Elisaie said, As the Lord lives and your soul lives, I will not leave you; so they came to Baethel. 
And the sons of the prophets who were in Baethel came to Elisaie, and said to him, Do you know, that the Lord this day is going to take your lord away from your head? And he said, Yes, I know it; be silent. 
And Eliu said to Elisaie, Stay here, I pray you; for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord lives and your soul lives, I will not leave you. And they came to Jericho. 
And the sons of the prophets who were in Jericho drew near to Elisaie, and said to him, Do you know that the Lord is about to take away your master today from your head? And he said, Yes, I know it; hold your peace. 
And Eliu said to him, Stay here, I pray you, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And Elisaie said, As the Lord lives and your soul lives, I will not leave you: and they both went on. 
And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went also, and they stood opposite afar off: and both stood on the bank of Jordan. 
And Eliu took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and struck the water: and the water was divided on this side and on that side, and they both went over on dry ground. 
And it came to pass while they were crossing over, that Eliu said to Elisaie, Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken up from you. And Elisaie said, Let there be, I pray you, a double portion of your spirit upon me. 
And Eliu said, You have asked a hard thing: if you shall see me when I am taken up from you, then shall it be so to you; and if not, it shall not be so. 
And it came to pass as they were going, they went on talking; and, behold, a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and it separated between them both; and Eliu was taken up in a whirlwind as it were into heaven. 
And Elisaie saw, and cried, Father, father, the chariot of Israel, and the horseman thereof! And he saw him no more: and he took hold of his garments, and tore them into two pieces. 
And Elisaie took up the mantle of Eliu, which fell from off him upon Elisaie; and Elisaie returned, and stood upon the brink of Jordan; 
and he took the mantle of Eliu, which fell from off him, and struck the water, and said, Where is the Lord God of Eliu? and he struck the waters, and they were divided hither and there; and Elisaie went over. 
And the sons of the prophets who were in Jericho on the opposite side saw him, and said, The spirit of Eliu has rested upon Elisaie. And they came to meet him, and did obeisance to him to the ground. 
And they said to him, Behold now, there are with your servants fifty men of strength: let them go now, and seek your lord: perhaps the Spirit of the Lord has taken him up, and cast him into Jordan, or on one of the mountains, or on one of the hills. And Elisaie said, You⌃ shall not send. 
And they pressed him until he was ashamed; and he said, Send. And they sent fifty men, and sought three days, and found him not. 
And they returned to him, for he lived in Jericho: and Elisaie said, Did I not say to you, Go not? 
And the men of the city said to Elisaie, Behold, the situation of the city is good, as our lord sees; but the waters are bad, and the ground barren. 
And Elisaie said, Bring me a new pitcher, and put salt in it. And they took one, and brought it to him. 
And Elisaie went out to the spring of the waters, and cast salt therein, and says, Thus says the Lord, I have healed these waters; there shall not be any longer death thence or barren land. 
And the waters were healed until this day, according to the word of Elisaie which he spoke. 
And he went up thence to Baethel: and as he was going up by the way there came up also little children from the city, and mocked him, and said to him, Go up, bald-head, go up. 
And he turned after them, and saw them, and cursed them in the name of the Lord. And, behold, there came out two bears out of the wood, and they tore forty and two children of them. 
And he went thence to mount Carmel, and returned thence to Samaria. 
