Genesis.
Chapter 20.
And Abraam removed thence to the southern country, and lived between Cades and Sur, and sojourned in Gerara. 
And Abraam said concerning Sarrha his wife, She is my sister, for he feared to say, She is my wife, lest at any time the men of the city should kill him for her sake. So Abimelech king of Gerara sent and took Sarrha. 
And God came to Abimelech by night in sleep, and said, Behold, you die for the woman, whom you have taken, whereas she has lived with a husband. 
But Abimelech had not touched her, and he said, Lord, will you destroy an ignorantly sinning and just nation? 
Said he not to me, She is my sister, and said she not to me, He is my brother? with a pure heart and in the righteousness of my hands have I done this. 
And God said to him in sleep, Yes, I knew that you did this with a pure heart, and I spared you, so that you should not sin against me, therefore I suffered you not to touch her. 
But now return the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and shall pray for you, and you shall live; but if you restore her not, know that you shall die and all your. 
And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and he spoke all these words in their ears, and all the men feared exceedingly. 
And Abimelech called Abraam and said to him, What is this that you have done to us? Have we sinned against you, that you have brought upon me and upon my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me a deed, which no one ought to do. 
And Abimelech said to Abraam, What have you seen in me that you have done this? 
And Abraam said, Why I said, Surely there is not the worship of God in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife. 
For truly she is my sister by my father, but not by my mother, and she became my wife. 
And it came to pass when God brought me forth out of the house of my father, that I said to her, This righteousness you shall perform to me, in every place into which we may enter, say of me, He is my brother. 
And Abimelech took a thousand pieces of silver, and sheep, and calves, and servants, and maidservants, and gave them to Abraam, and he returned him Sarrha his wife. 
And Abimelech said to Abraam, Behold, my land is before you, dwell wherever it may please you. 
And to Sarrha he said, Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver, those shall be to you for the price of your countenance, and to all the women with you, and speak the truth in all things. 
And Abraam prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his women servants, and they bore children. 
Because the Lord had fast closed from without every womb in the house of Abimelech, because of Sarrha Abraam's wife. 
