Deuteronomy.
Chapter 14.
You⌃ are the children of the Lord your God: you⌃ shall not make any baldness between you eyes for the dead. 
For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, and the Lord your God has chosen you to be a peculiar people to himself of all the nations on the face of the earth. 
You⌃ shall not eat any abominable thing. 
These are the beasts which you⌃ shall eat; the calf of the herd, and lamb of the sheep, and kid of the goats; 
the stag, and doe, and pygarg, and wild goat, and camelopard. 
Every beast that divides the hoofs, and makes claws of two divisions, and that chews the cud amongst beasts, these you⌃ shall eat. 
And these you⌃ shall not eat of them that chew the cud, and of those that divide the hoofs, and make distinct claws; the camel, and the hare, and the rabbit; because they chew the cud, and do not divide the hoof, these are unclean to you. 
And as for the swine, because he divides the hoof, and makes claws of the hoof, yet he chews not the cud, he is unclean to you; you⌃ shall not eat of their flesh, you⌃ shall not touch their dead bodies. 
And these you⌃ shall eat of all that are in the water, you⌃ shall eat all that have fins and scales. 
And all that have not fins and scales you⌃ shall not eat; they are unclean to you. 
You⌃ shall eat every clean bird. 
And these of them you⌃ shall not eat; the eagle, and the ossifrage, and the sea-eagle, 
and the vulture, and the kite and the like to it, 
and the sparrow, and the owl, and the cormorant, 
and the heron, and the swan, and the stork, 
and the cormorant, and the hawk, and its like, and the hoopoe, and the raven, 
and the pelican, and the diver and the like to it, and the red-bill and the bat. 
All winged animals that creep are unclean to you; you⌃ shall not eat of them. 
You⌃ shall eat every clean bird. 
You⌃ shall eat nothing that dies of itself; it shall be given to the sojourner in your cities and he shall eat it, or you shall sell it to a stranger, because you are a holy people to the Lord your God. You shall not boil a lamb in his mother's milk. 
You shall tithe a tenth of all the produce of your seed, the fruit of your field year by year. 
And you shall eat it in the place which the Lord your God shall choose to have his name called there; you⌃ shall bring the tithe of your corn and of your wine, and of your oil, the firstborn of your herd and of your flock, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. 
And if the journey be too far for you, and you are not able to bring them, because the place is far from you which the Lord your God shall choose to have his name called there, because the Lord your God will bless you; 
then you shall sell them for money, and you shall take the money in your hands, and you shall go to the place which the Lord your God shall choose. 
And you shall give the money for whatever your soul shall desire, for oxen or for sheep, or for wine, or you shall lay it out on strong drink, or on whatever your soul may desire, and you shall eat there before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice and your house, 
and the Levite that is in your cities, because he has not a portion or inheritance with you. 
After three years you shall bring out all the tithes of your fruits, in that year you shall lay it up in your cities. 
And the Levite shall come, because he has no part or lot with you, and the stranger, and the orphan, and the widow which is in your cities; and they shall eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the works which you shall do. 
