Jeremias.
Chapter 50.
And it came to pass, when Jeremias ceased speaking to the people all the words of the Lord, for which the Lord had sent him to them, even all these words, 
that Azarias son of Maasaeas spoke, and Joanan, the son of Caree, and all the men who had spoken to Jeremias, saying, It is false: the Lord has not sent you to us, saying, Enter not into Egypt to dwell there: 
but Baruch the son of Nerias sets you against us, that you may deliver us into the hands of the Chaldeans, to kill us, and that we should be carried away captives to Babylon. 
So Joanan, and all the leaders of the host, and all the people, refused to listen to the voice of the Lord, to dwell in the land of Juda. 
And Joanan, and all the leaders of the host, took all the remnant of Juda, who had returned to dwell in the land; 
the mighty men, and the women, and the children that were left, and the daughters of the king, and the souls which Nabuzardan had left with Godolias the son of Achicam and Jeremias the prophet, and Baruch the son of Nerias. 
And they came into Egypt: for they listened not to the voice of the Lord: and they entered into Taphnas. 
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremias in Taphnas, saying, 
Take you great stones, and hide them in the entrance, at the gate of the house of Pharao in Taphnas, in the sight of the men of Juda: 
and you shall say, Thus has the Lord said; Behold, I will send, and will bring Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon, and he shall place his throne upon these stones which you have hidden, and he shall lift up weapons against them. 
And he shall enter in, and strike the land of Egypt, delivering some for death to death; and some for captivity to captivity; and some for the sword to the sword. 
And he shall kindle a fire in the houses of their gods, and shall burn them, and shall carry them away captives: and shall search the land of Egypt, as a shepherd searches his garment; and he shall go forth in peace. 
And he shall break to pieces the pillars of Heliopolis that are in On, and shall burn their houses with fire. 
