Ambacum.
Chapter 3.
A PRAYER OF THE PROPHET AMBACUM, WITH A SONG. 
O Lord, I have heard your report, and was afraid: I considered your works, and was amazed: you shall be known between the two living creatures, you shall be acknowledged when the years draw near; you shall be manifested when the time is come; when my soul is troubled, you will in wrath remember mercy. 
God shall come from Thaeman, and the Holy One from the dark shady mount Pharan. Pause. 
His excellence covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. And his brightness shall be as light; there were horns in his hands, and he caused a mighty love of his strength. 
Before his face shall go a report, and it shall go forth into the plains, 
the earth stood at his feet and trembled: he *saw, and the nations melted away: the mountains were violently burst through, the everlasting hills melted at his everlasting going forth. 
Because of troubles I looked upon the tents of the Ethiopians: the tabernacles also of the land of Madiam shall be dismayed. 
Was you angry, O Lord, with the rivers? or was your wrath against the rivers, or your anger against the sea? for you will mount on your horses, and your chariots are salvation. 
Surely you did bend they bow at sceptres, says the Lord. Pause. The land of rivers shall be torn asunder. 
The nations shall see you and be in pain, as you do divide the moving waters: the deep uttered her voice, and raised her form on high. 
The sun was exalted, and the moon stood still in her course: your darts shall go forth at the light, at the brightness of the gleaming of your arms. 
You will bring low the land with threatening, and in wrath you will break down the nations. 
You went forth for the salvation of your people, to save your anointed: you shall bring death on the heads of transgressors; you have brought bands upon their neck. Pause. 
You did cut asunder the heads of princes with amazement, they shall tremble in it; they shall burst their bridles, they shall be as a poor man devouring in secret. 
And you do cause your horses to enter the sea, disturbing much water. 
I watched, and my belly trembled at the sound of the prayer of my lips, and trembling entered into my bones, and my frame was troubled within me; I will rest in the day of affliction, from going up to the people of my sojourning. 
For though the fig tree shall bear no fruit, and there shall be no produce on the vines; the labour of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall produce no food: the sheep have failed from the pasture, and there are no oxen at the cribs; 
yet I will exult in the Lord, I will joy in God my Saviour. 
The Lord God is my strength, and he will perfectly strengthen my feet; he mounts me upon high places, that I may conquer by his song. 
