Esias.
Chapter 24.
Behold, the Lord is about to lay waste the world, and will make it desolate, and will lay bare the surface of it, and scatter them that dwell therein. 
And the people shall be as the priest, and the servant as the lord, and the maid as the mistress; the buyer shall be as the seller, the lender as the borrower, and the debtor as his creditor. 
The earth shall be completely laid waste, and the earth shall be utterly spoiled: for the mouth of the Lord has spoken these things. 
The earth mourns, and the world is ruined, the lofty ones of the earth are mourning. 
And she has sinned by reason of her inhabitants; because they have transgressed the law, and changed the ordinances, even the everlasting covenant. 
Therefore a curse shall consume the earth, because the inhabitants thereof have sinned: therefore the dwellers in the earth shall be poor, and few men shall be left. 
The wine shall mourn, the vine shall mourn, all the merry-hearted shall sigh. 
The mirth of timbrels has ceased, the sound of the harp has ceased. 
They are ashamed, they have not drunk wine; strong drink has become bitter to them that drink it. 
All the city has become desolate: one shall shut his house so that none shall enter. 
There is a howling for the wine everywhere; all the mirth of the land has ceased, all the mirth of the land has departed. 
And cities shall be left desolate, and houses being left shall fall to ruin. 
All this shall be in the land in the midst of the nations, as if one should strip an olive tree, so shall they strip them; but when the vintage is done, 
these shall cry aloud; and they that are left on the land shall rejoice together in the glory of the Lord: the water of the sea shall be troubled. 
Therefore shall the glory of the Lord be in the isles of the sea; the name of the Lord shall be glorious. 
O Lord God of Israel, from the ends of the earth we have heard wonderful things, and there is hope to the godly: but they shall say, Woe to the despisers, that despise the law. 
Fear, and a pit, and a snare, are upon you that dwell on the earth. 
And it shall come to pass, that he that flees from the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that comes up out of the pit shall be caught by the snare: for windows have been opened in heaven, and the foundations of the earth shall be shaken, 
the earth shall be utterly confounded, and the earth shall be completely perplexed. 
It reels as a drunkard and one oppressed with wine, and the earth shall be shaken as a storehouse of fruits; for iniquity has prevailed upon it, and it shall fall, and shall not be able to rise. 
And God shall bring his hand upon the host of heaven, and upon the kings of the earth. 
And they shall gather the multitude thereof into prisons, and they shall shut them into a strong hold: after many generations they shall be visited. 
And the brick shall decay, and the wall shall fall; for the Lord shall reign from out of Sion, and out of Jerusalem, and shall be glorified before his elders. 
