Proverbs.
Chapter 10.
A wise son makes his father glad: but a foolish son is a grief to his mother. 
Treasures shall not profit the lawless: but righteousness shall deliver from death. 
The Lord will not famish a righteous soul: but he will overthrow the life of the ungodly. 
Poverty brings a man low: but the hands of the vigorous make rich. A son who is instructed shall be wise, and shall use the fool for a servant. 
A wise son is saved from heat: but a lawless son is blighted of the winds in harvest. 
The blessing of the Lord is upon the head of the just: but untimely grief shall cover the mouth of the ungodly. 
The memory of the just is praised; but the name of the ungodly man is extinguished. 
A wise man in heart will receive commandments; but he that is unguarded in his lips shall be overthrown in his perverseness. 
He that walks simply, walks confidently; but he that perverts his ways shall be known. 
He that winks with his eyes deceitfully, procures griefs for men; but he that reproves boldly is a peacemaker. 
There is a fountain of life in the hand of a righteous man; but destruction shall cover the mouth of the ungodly. 
Hatred stirs up strife; but affection covers all that do not love strife. 
He that brings forth wisdom from his lips smites the fool with a rod. 
The wise will hide discretion; but the mouth of the hasty draws near to ruin. 
The wealth of rich men is a strong city; but poverty is the ruin of the ungodly. 
The works of the righteous produce life; but the fruits of the ungodly produce sins. 
Instruction keeps the right ways of life; but instruction unchastened goes astray. 
Righteous lips cover enmity; but they that utter railings are most foolish. 
By a multitude of words you shall not escape sin; but if you refrain your lips you will be prudent. 
The tongue of the just is tried silver; but the heart of the ungodly shall fail. 
The lips of the righteous know sublime truths: but the foolish die in lack. 
The blessing of the Lord is upon the head of the righteous; it enriches him, and grief of heart shall not be added to it. 
A fool does mischief in sport; but wisdom brings forth prudence for a man. 
The ungodly is engulfed in destruction; but the desire of the righteous is acceptable. 
When the storm passes by, the ungodly vanishes away; but the righteous turns aside and escapes for ever. 
As a sour grape is hurtful to the teeth, and smoke to the eyes, so iniquity hurts those that practise it. 
The fear of the Lord adds length of days: but the years of the ungodly shall be shortened. 
Joy rests long with the righteous: but the hope of the ungodly shall perish. 
The fear of the Lord is a strong hold of the saints: but ruin comes to them that work wickedness. 
The righteous shall never fail: but the ungodly shall not dwell in the earth. 
The mouth of the righteous drops wisdom: but the tongue of the unjust shall perish. 
The lips of just men drop grace: but the mouth of the ungodly is perverse. 
