Esias.
Chapter 26.
In that day they shall sing this song in the land of Judea; Behold a strong city; and he shall make salvation its wall and bulwark. 
Open you⌃ the gates, let the nation enter that keeps righteousness, and keeps truth, 
supporting truth, and keeping peace: for on you, O Lord, 
they have trusted with confidence for ever, the great, the eternal God; 
who have humbled and brought down them that dwell on high, you shall cast down strong cities, and bring them to the ground. 
And the feet of the meek and lowly shall trample them. 
The way of the godly is made straight: the way of the godly is also prepared. 
For the way of the Lord is judgement: we have hoped in your name, and on the remembrance of you, 
which our soul longs for: my spirit seeks you very early in the morning, O God, for your commandments are a light on the earth: learn righteousness, you⌃ that dwell upon the earth. 
For the ungodly one is put down: no one who will not learn righteousness on the earth, shall be able to do the truth: let the ungodly be taken away, that he see not the glory of the Lord. 
O Lord, your arm is exalted, yet they knew it not: but when they know they shall be ashamed: jealousy shall seize upon an untaught nation, and now fire shall devour the adversaries. 
O Lord our God, give us peace: for you have rendered to us all things. 
O Lord our God, take possession of us: O Lord, we know not any other beside you: we name your name. 
But the dead shall not see life, neither shall physicians by any means raise them up: therefore you have brought wrath upon them, and slain them, and have taken away every male of them. Bring more evils upon them, O Lord; 
bring more evils on the glorious ones of the earth. 
Lord, in affliction I remembered you; your chastening was to us with small affliction. 
And as a woman in travail draws near to be delivered, and cries out in her pain; so have we been to your beloved. 
We have conceived, O Lord, because of your fear, and have been in pain, and have brought forth the breath of your salvation, which we have wrought upon the earth: we shall not fall, but all that dwell upon the land shall fall. 
The dead shall rise, and they that are in the tombs shall be raised, and they that are in the earth shall rejoice: for the dew from you is healing to them: but the land of the ungodly shall perish. 
Go, my people, enter into your closets, shut your door, hide yourself for a little season, until the anger of the Lord have passed away. 
For, behold, the Lord is bringing wrath from his holy place upon the dwellers on the earth: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall not cover her slain. 
