Jezekiel.
Chapter 7.
Moreover the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Also, you, son of man, say, 
Thus says the Lord; An end is come to the land of Israel, the end is come on the four corners of the land. 
The end is come on you, 
the inhabitant of the land: the time is come, the day has drawn near, not with tumult, nor with pangs. 
Now I will pour out my anger upon you near at hand, and I will accomplish my wrath on you: and I will judge you for your ways, and recompense upon you all your abominations. 
Mine eye shall not spare, nor will I have any mercy: for I will recompense your ways upon you, and your abominations shall be in the midst of you; and you shall know that I am the Lord that strike you. 
Now the end is come to you, and I will send judgement upon you: and I will take vengeance on your ways, and will recompense all your abominations upon you. 
Mine eye shall not spare, nor will I have any mercy: for I will recompense your way upon you, and your abominations shall be in the midst of you; and you shall know that I am the Lord. 
For thus says the Lord; Behold, the end is come. 
Behold, the day of the Lord! although the rod has blossomed, 
pride has sprung up, and will break the staff of the wicked one, and that not with tumult, nor with haste. 
The time is come, behold the day: let not the buyer rejoice, and let not the seller mourn. 
For the buyer shall never again return to the seller, neither shall a man cleave with the eye of hope to his life. 
Sound you⌃ the trumpet, and pass sentence on all together. 
There shall be war with the sword without, and famine and pestilence within: he that is in the field shall die by the sword; and famine and pestilence shall destroy them that are in the city. 
But they that escape of them shall be delivered, and shall be upon the mountains: and I will kill all the rest, every one for his iniquities. 
All hands shall be completely weakened, and all thighs shall be defiled with moisture. 
And they shall gird themselves with sackcloth, and amazement shall cover them; and shame shall be upon them, even upon every face, and baldness upon every head. 
Their silver shall be cast forth in the streets, and their gold shall be despised: their souls shall not be satisfied, and their bellies shall not be filled: for it was the punishment of their iniquities. 
As for their choice ornaments, they employed them for pride, and they made of them images of their abominations: therefore have I made them uncleanness to them. 
And I will deliver them into the hands of strangers to make them a prey, and to the pests of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane them. 
And I will turn away my face from them, and they shall defile my charge, and shall go in to them unguardedly, and profane them. 
And they shall work uncleanness: because the land is full of strange nations, and the city is full of iniquity. 
And I will turn back the boasting of their strength; and their holy things shall be defiled. 
And though propitiation shall come, and one shall seek peace, yet there shall be none. 
There shall be woe upon woe, and there shall be message upon message; and a vision shall be sought from a prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders. 
The prince shall clothe himself with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be made feeble: I will do to them according to their ways, and according to their judgements will I punish them; and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
