Judges.
Chapter 19.
And there was a Levite sojourning in the sides of mount Ephraim, and he took to himself a concubine from Bethleem Juda. 
And his concubine departed from him, and went away from him to the house of her father to Bethleem Juda, and she was there four months. 
And her husband rose up, and went after her to speak kindly to her, to recover her to himself; and he had his young man with him, and a pair of asses; and she brought him into the house of her father; and the father of the damsel saw him, and was well pleased to meet him. 
And his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, constrained him, and he stayed with him for three days; and they ate and drank, and lodged there. 
And it came to pass on the fourth day that they rose early, and he stood up to depart; and the father of the damsel said to his son-in-law, Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and afterwards you⌃ shall go. 
So they two sat down together and ate and drank: and the father of the damsel said to her husband, Tarry now the night, and let your heart be merry. 
And the man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law constrained him, and he stayed and lodged there. 
And he rose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the father of the damsel said, Strengthen now your heart, and quit yourself as a soldier till the day decline; and the two ate. 
And the man rose up to depart, he and his concubine, and his young man; but his father-in-law the father of the damsel said to him, Behold now, the day has declined towards evening; lodge here, an let your heart rejoice; and you⌃ shall rise early to-morrow for your journey, and you shall go to your habitation. 
But the man would not lodge there, but he arose and departed, and came to the part opposite Jebus, (this is Jerusalem,) and there was with him a pair of asses saddled, and his concubine was with him. 
And they came as far as Jebus: and the day had far advanced, and the young man said to his master, Come, I pray you, and let us turn aside to this city of the Jebusites, and let us lodge in it. 
And his master said to him, We will not turn aside to a strange city, where there is not one of the children of Israel, but we will pass on as far as Gabaa. 
And he said to his young man, Come, and let us draw near to one of the places, and we will lodge in Gabaa or in Rama. 
And they passed by and went on, and the sun went down upon them near to Gabaa, which is in Benjamin. 
And they turned aside thence to go in to lodge in Gabaa; and they went in, and sat down in the street of the city, and there was no one who conducted them into a house to lodge. 
And behold, an old man came out of the field from his work in the evening; and the man was of mount Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gabaa, and the men of the place were sons of Benjamin. 
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw a traveller in the street of the city; and the old man said to him, Whither go you, and whence come you? 
And he said to him, We are passing by from Bethleem Juda to the sides of mount Ephraim: I am from thence, and I went as far as Bethleem Juda, and I am going home, and there is no man to take me into his house. 
Yet is there straw and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me and my handmaid and the young man with your servants; there is no lack of anything. 
And the old man said, Peace be to you; only be every lack of your upon me, only do you by no means lodge in the street. 
And he brought him into his house, and made room for his asses; and they washed their feet, and ate and drank. 
And they were comforting their heart, when, behold, the men of the city, sons of transgressors, compassed the house, knocking at the door: and they spoke to the old man the owner of the house, saying, Bring out the man who came into your house, that we may know him. 
And the master of the house came out to them, and said, Nay, brethren, do not you⌃ wrong, I pray you, after this man has come into my house; do not you⌃ this folly. 
Behold my daughter a virgin, and the man's concubine: I will bring them out, and humble you⌃ them, and do to them that which is good in your eyes; but to this man do not this folly. 
But the men would not consent to listen to him; so the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out to them; and they knew her, and abused her all night till the morning, and let her go when the morning dawned. 
And the woman came towards morning, and fell down at the door of the house where her husband was, until it was light. 
And her husband rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go on his journey; and, behold, the woman his concubine had fallen down by the doors of the house, and her hands were on the threshold. 
And he said to her, Rise, and let us go; and she answered not, for she was dead: and he took her upon his ass, and went to his place. 
And he took his sword, and laid hold of his concubine, and divided her into twelve parts, and sent them to every coast of Israel. 
And it was so, that every one who saw it said, Such a day as this has not happened nor has been seen from the day of the going up of the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt until this day: take you⌃ counsel concerning it, and speak. 
