Ecclesiastes.
Chapter 9.
I saw that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God: yes, there is no man that knows either love or hatred, though all are before their face. 
Vanity is in all: there is one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the good, and to the bad; both to the pure, and to the impure; both to him that sacrifices, and to him that sacrifice not: as is the good, so is the sinner: as is the swearer, even so is he that fears an oath. 
There is this evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes, the heart of the sons of men is filled with evil, and madness is in their heart during their life, and after that they go to the dead. 
for who is he that has fellowship with all the living? there is hope of him: for a living dog is better than a dead lion. 
For the living will know that they shall die: but the dead know nothing, and there is no longer any reward to them; for their memory is lost. 
also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, have now perished; yes, there is no portion for them any more for ever in all that is done under the sun. 
Go, eat your bread with mirth, and drink your wine with a joyful heart; for now God has favourably accepted your works. 
Let your garments be always white; and let not oil be lacking on your head. 
And see life with the wife whom you love all the days of the life of your vanity, which are given you under the sun: for that is your portion in your life, and in your labour wherein you labour under the sun. 
Whatsoever your hand shall find to do, do with all your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in Hades wither you go. 
I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor yet bread to the wise, nor yet wealth to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of knowledge; for time and chance will happen to them all. 
For surely man also knows not his time: as fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as birds that are caught in a snare; even thus the sons of men are snared at an evil time, when it falls suddenly upon them. 
This I also saw to be wisdom under the sun, and it is great before me: 
suppose there were a little city, and few men in it; and there should come against it a great king, and surround it, and build great mounds against it; 
and should find in it a poor wise man, and he should save the city through his wisdom: yet no man would remember that poor man. 
And I said Wisdom is better than power: yet the wisdom of the poor man is set at nothing, and his words not listened to. 
The words of the wise are heard in quiet more than the cry of them that rule in folly. 
Wisdom is better than weapons of war: and one sinner will destroy much good. 
