Deuteronomy.
Chapter 2.
And we turned and departed into the wilderness, by the way of the Red Sea, as the Lord spoke to me, and we compassed mount Seir many days. 
And the Lord said to me, 
You⌃ have compassed this mount long enough; turn therefore towards the north. 
And charge the people, saying, You⌃ are going through the borders of your brethren the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir; and they shall fear you, and dread you greatly. 
Do not engage in war against them, for I will not give you of their land even enough to set your foot upon, for I have given mount Seir to the children of Esau as an inheritance. 
Buy food of them for money and eat, and you⌃ shall receive water of them by measure for money, and drink. 
For the Lord our God has blessed you in every work of your hands. Consider how you went through that great and terrible wilderness: behold, the Lord your God has been with you forty years; you did not lack any thing. 
And we passed by our brethren the children of Esau, who lived in Seir, by the way of Araba from Aelon and from Gesion Gaber; and we turned and passed by the way of the desert of Moab. 
And the Lord said to me, Do not you⌃ quarrel with the Moabites, and do not engage in war with them; for I will not give you of their land for an inheritance, for I have given Aroer to the children of Lot to inherit. 
Formerly the Ommin lived in it, a great and numerous nation and powerful, like the Enakim. 
These also shall be accounted Raphain like the Enakim; and the Moabites call them Ommin. 
And the Chorrhite lived in Seir before, and the sons of Esau destroyed them, and utterly consumed them from before them; and they lived in their place, as Israel did to the land of his inheritance, which the Lord gave to them. 
Now then, arise you⌃, said I, and depart, and cross the valley of Zaret. 
And the days in which we travelled from Cades Barne till we crossed the valley of Zaret, were thirty and eight years, until the whole generation of the men of war failed, dying out of the camp, as the Lord God sware to them. 
And the hand of the Lord was upon them to destroy them out of the midst of the camp, until they were consumed. 
And it came to pass when all the men of war dying out of the midst of the people had fallen, 
that the Lord spoke to me, saying, 
You shall pass over this day the borders of Moab to Aroer; 
and you⌃ shall draw near to the children of Amman: do not quarrel with them, nor wage war with them; for I will not give you of the land of the children of Amman for an inheritance, because I have given it to the children of Lot for an inheritance. 
It shall be accounted a land of Raphain, for the Raphain lived there before, and the Ammanites call them Zochommin. 
A great nation and populous, and mightier than you, as also the Enakim: yet the Lord destroyed them from before them, and they inherited their land, and they lived there instead of them until this day. 
As they did to the children of Esau that dwell in Seir, even as they destroyed the Chorrhite from before them, and inherited their country, and lived therein instead of them until this day. 
And the Evites who dwell in Asedoth to Gaza, and the Cappadocians who came out of Cappadocia, destroyed them, and lived in their room. 
Now then arise and depart, and pass over the valley of Arnon: behold, I have delivered into your hands Seon the king of Esebon the Amorite, and his land: begin to inherit it: engage in war with him this day. 
Begin to put your terror and your fear on the face of all the nations under heaven, who shall be troubled when they have heard your name, and shall be in anguish before you. 
And I sent ambassadors from the wilderness of Kedamoth to Seon king of Esebon with peaceful words, saying, 
I will pass through your land: I will go by the road, I will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
You shall give me food for money, and I will eat; and you shall give me water for money, and I will drink; I will only go through on my feet: 
as the sons of Esau did to me, who lived in Seir, and the Moabites who lived in Aroer, until I shall have passed Jordan into the land which the Lord our God gives us. 
And Seon king of Esebon would not that we should pass by him, because the Lord our God hardened his spirit, and made his heart stubborn, that he might be delivered into your hands, as on this day. 
And the Lord said to me, Behold, I have begun to deliver before you Seon the king of Esebon the Amorite, and his land, and do you begin to inherit his land. 
And Seon the king of Esebon came forth to meet us, he and all his people to war at Jassa. 
And the Lord our God delivered him before our face, and we struck him, and his sons, and all his people. 
And we took possession of all his cities at that time, and we utterly destroyed every city in succession, and their wives, and their children; we left no living prey. 
Only we took the cattle captive, and took the spoil of the cities. 
From Aroer, which is by the brink of the brook of Arnon, and the city which is in the valley, and as far as the mount of Galaad; there was not a city which escaped us: the Lord our God delivered all of them into our hands. 
Only we did not draw near to the children of Amman, even all the parts bordering on the brook Jaboc, and the cities in the mountain country, as the Lord our God charged us. 
