Esias.
Chapter 33.
Woe to them that afflict you; but no one makes you miserable: and he that deals perfidiously with you does not deal perfidiously: they that deal perfidiously shall be taken and given up, and as a moth on a garment, so shall they be spoiled. 
Lord, have mercy upon us; for we have trusted in you: the seed of the rebellious is gone to destruction, but our deliverance was in a time of affliction. 
By reason of the terrible sound the nations were dismayed for fear of you, and the heathen were scattered. 
And now shall the spoils of your small and great be gathered: as if one should gather locusts, so shall they mock you. 
The God who dwells on high is holy: Sion is filled with judgement and righteousness. 
They shall be delivered up to the law: our salvation is our treasure: there are wisdom and knowledge and piety towards the Lord; these are the treasures of righteousness. 
Behold now, these shall be terrified with fear of you: those whom you⌃ feared shall cry out because of you: messengers shall be sent, bitterly weeping, entreating for peace. 
For the ways of these shall be made desolate: the terror of the nations has been made to cease, and the covenant with these is taken away, and you⌃ shall by no means deem them men. 
The land mourns; Libanus is ashamed: Saron is become marshes; Galilee shall be laid bare, and Chermel. 
Now will I arise, says the Lord, now will I be glorified; now will I be exalted. 
Now shall you⌃ see, now shall you⌃ perceive; the strength of your breath, shall be vain; fire shall devour you. 
And the nations shall be burnt up; as a thorn in the field cast out and burnt up. 
They that are afar off shall hear what I have done; they that draw near shall know my strength. 
The sinners in Sion have departed; trembling shall seize the ungodly. Who will tell you that a fire is kindled? Who will tell you of the eternal place? 
He that walks in righteousness, speaking rightly, hating transgression and iniquity, and shaking his hands from gifts, stopping his ears that he should not hear the judgement of blood, shutting his eyes that he should not see injustice. 
he shall dwell in a high cave of a strong rock: bread shall be given him, and his water shall be sure. 
You⌃ shall see a king with glory: your eyes shall behold a land from afar. 
Your soul shall meditate terror. Where are the scribes? where are the counsellors, where is he that numbers them that are growing up, 
even the small and great people? with whom he took not counsel, neither did he understand a people of deep speech, so that a despised people should not hear, and there is no understanding to him that hears. 
Behold the city of Sion, our refuge: your eyes shall behold Jerusalem, a rich city, tabernacles which shall not be shaken, neither shall the pins of her tabernacle be moved for ever, neither shall her cords be at all broken: 
for the name of the Lord is great to you: you⌃ shall have a place, even rivers and wide and spacious channels: you shall not go this way, neither a vessel with oars go thereby. 
For my God is great: the Lord our judge shall not pass me by: the Lord is our prince, the Lord is our king; the Lord, he shall save us. 
Your cords are broken, for they had no strength: your meat has given way, it shall not spread the sails, it shall not bear a signal, until it be given up for plunder; therefore shall many lame men take spoil. 
And the people dwelling amongst them shall by no means say, I am in pain: for their sin shall be forgiven them. 
