LEVITICUS.
Chapter 1.
And the Lord called Moses again and spoke to him out of the tabernacle of witness, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, and you shall say to them, 
If any man of you shall bring gifts to the Lord, you⌃ shall bring your gifts of the cattle and of the oxen and of the sheep. 
If his gift be a whole burnt offering, he shall bring an unblemished male of the herd to the door of the tabernacle of witness, he shall bring it as acceptable before the Lord. 
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering as a thing acceptable for him, to make atonement for him. 
And they shall kill the calf before the Lord; and the sons of Aaron the priests shall bring the blood, and they shall pour the blood round about on the altar, which is at the doors of the tabernacle of witness. 
And having flayed the whole burnt offering, they shall divide it by its limbs. 
And the sons of Aaron the priests shall put fire on the altar, and shall pile wood on the fire. 
And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pile up the divided parts, and the head, and the fat on the wood on the fire, the wood which is on the altar. 
And the entrails and the feet they shall wash in water, and the priests shall put all on the altar: it is a burnt offering, a sacrifice, a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And if his gift be of the sheep to the Lord, or of the lambs, or of the kids for whole burnt offerings, he shall bring it a male without blemish. 
And he shall lay his hand on its head; and they shall kill it by the side of the altar, towards the north before the Lord, and the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour its blood on the altar round about. 
And they shall divide it by its limbs, and its head and its fat, and the priests shall pile them up on the wood which is on the fire, on the altar. 
And they shall wash the entrails and the feet with water, and the priest shall bring all the parts and put them on the altar: it is a burnt offering, a sacrifice, a smell of sweet savour to the Lord. 
And if he bring his gift, a burnt offering to the Lord, of birds, then shall he bring his gift of doves or pigeons. 
And the priest shall bring it to the altar, and shall wring off its head; and the priest shall put it on the altar, and shall wring out the blood at the bottom of the altar. 
And he shall take away the crop with the feathers, and shall cast it forth by the altar towards the east to the place of the ashes. 
And he shall break it off from the wings and shall not separate it, and the priest shall put it on the altar on the wood which is on the fire: it is a burnt offering, a sacrifice, a sweet smelling savour to the Lord. 
