Jezekiel.
Chapter 43.
Moreover he brought me to the gate looking eastward, and led me forth. 
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came by the eastern way; and there was a voice of an army, as the sound of many redoubling their shouts, and the earth shone like light from the glory round about. 
And the vision which I saw was like the vision which I saw when I went in to anoint the city: and the vision of the chariot which I saw was like the vision which I saw at the river Chobar; and I fell upon my face. 
And the glory of the Lord came into the house, by the way of the gate looking eastward. 
And the Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and, behold, the house of the Lord was full of glory. 
And I stood, and behold there was a voice out of the house of one speaking to me, and a man stood near me, 
and he said to me, Son of man, you have seen the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, in which my name shall dwell in the midst of the house of Israel for ever; and the house of Israel shall no more profane my holy name, they and their princes, by their fornication, or by the murders of their princes in the midst of them; 
when they set my door-way by their door-way, and my thresholds near to their thresholds: and they made my wall as it were joining myself and them, and they profaned my holy name with their iniquities which they wrought: and I destroyed them in my wrath and with slaughter. 
And now let them put away from me their fornication, and the murders of their princes, and I will dwell in the midst of them forever. 
And you, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may cease from their sins; and show its aspect and the arrangement of it. 
And they shall bear their punishment for all the things that they have done: and you shall describe the house, and its entrances, and the plan thereof, and all its ordinances, and you shall make known to them all the regulations of it, and describe them before them: and they shall keep all my commandments, and all my ordinances, and do them. 
And you shall show the plan of the house on the top of the mountain: all its limits round about shall be most holy. 
And these are the measures of the altar by the cubit of a cubit and a span, the cavity shall be a cubit deep, and a cubit shall be the breadth, and the border on the rim of it round about shall be a span: and this shall be the height of the altar 
from the bottom at the commencement of the hollow part to this great mercy-seat, from beneath was two cubits, and the breadth was a cubit; and from the little mercy-seat to the great mercy-seat, four cubits, and the breadth was a cubit. 
And the altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar and above the horns a cubit. 
And the altar shall be of the length of twelve cubits, by twelve cubits in breadth, square upon its four sides. 
And the mercy-seat shall be fourteen cubits in length, by fourteen cubits in breadth on its four sides; and there shall be a border to it carried round about it of half a cubit; and the rim of it shall be a cubit round about; and the steps thereof looking eastward. 
And he said to me, Son of man, thus says the Lord God of Israel; These are the ordinances of the altar in the day of its being made, to offer upon it whole burnt offerings, and to pour blood upon it. 
And you shall appoint to the priests the Levites of the seed of Sadduc, that draw near to me, says the Lord God, to minister to me, a calf of the herd for a sin-offering. 
And they shall take of its blood, and shall put it on the four horns of the altar, and upon the four corners of the propitiatory, and upon the base round about, and they shall make atonement for it. 
And they shall take the calf of the sin-offering, and it shall be consumed by fire in the separate place of the house, outside the sanctuary. 
And on the second day they shall take two kids of the goats without blemish for a sin-offering; and they shall make atonement for the altar, as they made atonement with the calf. 
And after they have finished the atonement, they shall bring an unblemished calf of the herd, and an unblemished ram of the flock. 
And you⌃ shall offer them before the Lord, and the priests shall sprinkle salt upon them, and shall offer them up as whole burnt offerings to the Lord. 
Seven days shall you offer a kid daily for a sin-offering, and a calf of the herd, and a ram out of the flock: they shall sacrifice them unblemished for seven days: 
and they shall make atonement for the altar, and shall purge it; and they shall consecrate themselves. 
And it shall come to pass from the eighth day and onward, that the priests shall offer your whole burnt offerings on the altar, and your peace-offerings; and I will accept you, says the Lord. 
