Jezekiel.
Chapter 48.
And these are the names of the tribes from the northern corner, on the side of the descent that draws a line to the entrance of Emath the palace of Aelam, the border of Damascus northward on the side of Emath the palace; and they shall have the eastern parts as far as the sea, for Dan, one portion. 
And from the borders of Dan eastward as far as the west sea-coast, for Asser, one. 
And from the borders of Asser, from the eastern parts as far as the west coasts, for Nephthalim, one. 
And from the borders of Nephthalim, from the east as far as the west coasts, for Manasse, one. 
And from the borders of Manasse, from the eastern parts as far as the west coasts, for Ephraim, one. 
And from the borders of Ephraim, from the eastern parts to the west coasts, for Ruben, one. 
And from the borders of Ruben, from the eastern parts as far as the west coasts, for Juda, one. 
And from the borders of Juda, from the eastern parts shall be the offering of first fruits, in the breadth twenty-five thousand reeds, and in length as one of the portions measured from the east even to the western parts: and the sanctuary shall be in the midst of them. 
As for the first fruits which they shall offer to the Lord, it shall be in length twenty-five thousand, and in breadth twenty-five thousand. 
Out of this shall be the first fruits of the holy things to the priests, northward, five and twenty-thousand, and towards the west, ten thousand, and southward, five and twenty thousand: and the mountain of the sanctuary, shall be in the midst of it, 
for the priests, for the consecrated sons of Sadduc, who keep the charges of the house, who erred not in the error of the children of Israel, as the Levites erred. 
And the first fruits shall be given to them out of the first fruits of the land, even a most holy portion from the borders of the Levites. 
And the Levites shall have the part, next to the borders of the priests, in length twenty-five thousand, and in breadth ten thousand: the whole length shall be five and twenty thousand, and the breadth twenty thousand. 
No part of it shall be sold, nor measured as for sale, neither shall the first fruits of the land be taken away: for they are holy to the Lord. 
But concerning the five thousand that remain in the breadth in the five and twenty thousand, they shall be a suburb to the city for dwelling, and for a space before it: and the city shall be in the midst thereof. 
And these shall be its dimensions; from the northern side four thousand and five hundred, and from the southern side four thousand and five hundred, and from the eastern side four thousand and five hundred, and from the western side they shall measure four thousand and five hundred. 
And there shall be a space to the city northward two hundred and fifty, and southward two hundred and fifty, and eastward two hundred and fifty, and westward two hundred and fifty. 
And the remainder of the length that is next to the first fruits of the holy portion shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward: and they shall be the first fruits of the sanctuary; and the fruits thereof shall be for bread to them that labour for the city. 
And they that labour for the city shall labour for it out of all the tribes of Israel. 
The whole offering shall be a square of twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand: you⌃ shall separate again part of it, the first fruits of the sanctuary, from the possession of the city. 
And the prince shall have the remainder on this side and on that side from the first fruits of the sanctuary, and there shall be a possession of the city, for five and twenty thousand cubits in length, to the eastern and western borders, for five and twenty thousand to the western borders, next to the portions of the prince; and the first fruits of the holy things and the sanctuary of the house shall be in the midst of it. 
And there shall be a portion taken from the Levites, from the possession of the city in the midst of the princes between the borders of Juda and the borders of Benjamin, and it shall be the portion of the princes. 
And as for the rest of the tribes, from the eastern parts as far as the western, Benjamin shall have one portion. 
And from the borders of Benjamin, from the eastern parts to the western, Symeon, one. 
And from the borders of Symeon, from the eastern parts to the western, Issachar, one. 
And from the borders of Issachar, from the eastern parts to the western, Zabulon, one. 
And from the borders of Zabulon, from the east to the western parts, Gad, one. 
And from the borders of Gad, from the eastern parts to the south-western parts; his coasts shall even be from Thaeman, and the water of Barimoth Cades, for an inheritance, to the great sea. 
This is the land, which you⌃ shall divide by lot to the tribes of Israel, and these are their portions, says the Lord God. 
And these are the goings out of the city northward, four thousand and five hundred by measure. 
And the gates of the city shall be after the names of the tribes of Israel: three gates northward; the gate of Ruben, one, and the gate of Juda, one, and the gate of Levi, one. 
And eastward four thousand and five hundred: and three gates; the gate of Joseph, one, and the gate of Benjamin, one, and the gate of Dan, one. 
And southward, four thousand and five hundred by measure: and three gates; the gate of Symeon, one, and the gate of Issachar, one, and the gate of Zabulon, one. 
And westward, four thousand and five hundred by measure: and three gates; the gate of Gad, one, and the gate of Asser, one, and the gate of Nephthalim, one. 
The circumference, eighteen thousand measures: and the name of the city, from the day that it shall be finished, shall be the name thereof. 
