Sirach.
Chapter 14.
Blessed is the man that has not slipped with his mouth, and is not pricked with the multitude of sins. 
Blessed is he whose conscience has not condemned him, and who is not fallen from his hope in the Lord. 
Riches are not comely for a niggard: and what should an envious man do with money? 
He that gathers by defrauding his own soul gathers for others, that shall spend his goods riotously. 
He that is evil to himself, to whom will he be good? he shall not take pleasure in his goods. 
There is none worse than he that envies himself; and this is a recompence of his wickedness. 
And if he does good, he does it unwillingly; and at the last he will declare his wickedness. 
The envious man has a wicked eye; he turns away his face, and despises men. 
A covetous man's eye is not satisfied with his portion; and the iniquity of the wicked dries up his soul. 
A wicked eye envies his bread, and he is a niggard at his table. 
My son, according to your ability do good to yourself, and give the Lord his due offering. 
Remember that death will not be long in coming, and that the covenant of the grave is not showed to you. 
Do good to your friend before you die, and according to your ability stretch out your hand and give to him. 
Defraud not yourself of the good day, and let not the part of a good desire overpass you. 
Shall you not leave your travails to another? and your labours to be divided by lot? 
Give, and take, and sanctify your soul; for there is no seeking of dainties in the grave. 
All flesh waxes old as a garment: for the covenant from the beginning is, You shall die the death. 
As of the green leaves on a thick tree, some fall, and some grow; so is the generation of flesh and blood, one comes to an end, and another is born. 
Every work rots and consumes away, and the worker thereof shall go withal. 
Blessed is the man that does meditate good things in wisdom, and that reasons of holy things by his understanding. 
He that considers her ways in his heart shall also have understanding in her secrets. 
Go after her as one that traces, and lie in wait in her ways. 
He that pries in at her windows shall also listen at her doors. 
He that does lodge near her house shall also fasten a pin in her walls. 
He shall pitch his tent near to her, and shall lodge in a lodging where good things are. 
He shall set his children under her shelter, and shall lodge under her branches. 
By her he shall be covered from heat, and in her glory shall he dwell. 
