Proverbs.
Chapter 27.
Boast not of to-morrow; for you know not what the next day shall bring forth. 
Let your neighbour, and not your own mouth, praise you; a stranger, and not your own lips. 
A stone is heavy, and sand cumbersome; but a fool's wrath is heavier than both. 
Wrath is merciless, and anger sharp: but envy can bear nothing. 
Open reproofs are better than secret love. 
The wounds of a friend are more to be trusted than the spontaneous kisses of an enemy. 
A full soul scorns honeycombs; but to a hungry soul even bitter things appear sweet. 
As when a bird flies down from its own nest, so a man is brought into bondage whenever he estranges himself from his own place. 
The heart delights in ointments and wines and perfumes: but the soul is broken by calamities. 
Your own friend, and your father's friend, forsake not; and when you are in distress go not into your brother's house: better is a friend that is near than a brother living far off. 
Son, be wise, that your heart may rejoice; and remove you from yourself reproachful words. 
A wise man, when evils are approaching, hides himself; but fools pass on, and will be punished. 
Take away the man's garment, (for a scorner has passed by) whoever lays waste another's goods. 
Whosoever shall bless a friend in the morning with a loud voice, shall seem to differ nothing from one who curses him. 
On a stormy day drops of rain drive a man out of his house; so also does a railing woman drive a man out of his own house. 
The north wind is sharp, but it is called by name propitious. 
Iron sharpens iron; and a man sharpens his friend's countenance. 
He that plants a fig tree shall eat the fruits of it: so he that waits on his own master shall be honoured. 
As faces are not like other faces, so neither are the thoughts of men. 
Hell and destruction are not filled; so also are the eyes of men insatiable. He that fixes his eye is an abomination to the Lord; and the uninstructed do not restrain their tongue. 
Fire is the trial for silver and gold; and a man is tried by the mouth of them that praise him. The heart of the transgressor seeks after mischiefs; but an upright heart seeks knowledge. 
Though you scourge a fool, disgracing him in the midst of the council, you will still in no wise remove his folly from him. 
Do you thoroughly know the number of your flock, and pay attention to your herds. 
For a man has not strength and power for ever; neither does he transmit it from generation to generation. 
Take care of the herbage in the field, and you shall cut grass, and gather the mountain hay; 
that you may have wool of sheep for clothing: pay attention to the land, that you may have lambs. 
My son, you have from me words very useful for your life, and for the life of your servants. 
