Psalms.
Chapter 44.
(45) For the end, for alternate strains by the sons of Core; for instruction, a Song concerning the beloved. My heart has uttered a good matter: I declare my works to the king: my tongue is the pen of a quick writer. 
You are more beautiful than the sons of men: grace has been shed forth on your lips: therefore God has blessed you for ever. 
Gird your sword upon your thigh, O Mighty One, in your comeliness, and in your beauty; 
and bend your bow, and prosper, and reign, because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and your right hand shall guide you wonderfully. 
Your weapons are sharpened, Mighty One, (the nations shall fall under you) they are in the heart of the king's enemies. 
Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of your kingdom is a sceptre of righteousness. 
You have loved righteousness, and hated iniquity: therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your fellows. 
Myrrh, and stacte, and cassia are exhaled from your garments, and out of the ivory palaces, 
with which kings' daughters have gladdened you for your honour: the queen stood by on your right hand, clothed in vesture wrought with gold, and arrayed in various colours. 
Hear, O daughter, and see, and incline your ear; forget also your people, and your father's house. 
Because the king has desired your beauty; for he is your Lord. 
And the daughter of Tyre shall adore him with gifts; the rich of the people of the land shall supplicate your favour. 
All her glory is that of the daughter of the king of Esebon, robed as she is in golden fringed garments, 
in embroidered clothing: virgins shall be brought to the king after her: her fellows shall be brought to you. 
They shall be brought with gladness and exultation: they shall be led into the king's temple. 
Instead of your fathers children are born to you: you shall make them princes over all the earth. 
They shall make mention of your name from generation to generation: therefore shall the nations give thanks to you for ever, even for ever and ever. 
