Psalms.
Chapter 71.
(72) For Solomon. O God, give your judgement to the king, and your righteousness to the king's son; 
that he may judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with judgement. 
Let the mountains and the hills raise peace to your people: 
he shall judge the poor of the people in righteousness, and save the children of the needy; and shall bring low the false accuser. 
And he shall continue as long as the sun, and before the moon for ever. 
He shall come down as rain upon a fleece; and as drops falling upon the earth. 
In his days shall righteousness spring up; and abundance of peace till the moon be removed. 
And he shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. 
The Ethiopians shall fall down before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust. 
The kings of Tharsis, and the isles, shall bring presents: the kings of the Arabians and Saba shall offer gifts. 
And all kings shall worship him; all the Gentiles shall serve him. 
For he has delivered the poor from the oppressor; and the needy who had no helper. 
He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall deliver the souls of the needy. 
He shall redeem their souls from usury and injustice: and their name shall be precious before him. 
And he shall live, and there shall be given him of the gold of Arabia: and men shall pray for him continually; and all the day shall they praise him. 
There shall be an establishment on the earth on the tops of the mountains: the fruit thereof shall be exalted above Libanus, and they of the city shall flourish as grass of the earth. 
Let his name be blessed for ever: his name shall endure longer than the sun: and all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed. 
Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, who alone does wonders. 
And blessed is his glorious name for ever, even for ever and ever: and all the earth shall be filled with his glory. So be it, so be it. 
The hymns of David the son of Jessae are ended. 
