Leviticus.
Chapter 16.
And the Lord spoke to Moses after the two sons of Aaron died in bringing strange fire before the Lord, so they died. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Speak to Aaron your brother, and let him not come in at all times into the holy place within the veil before the propitiatory, which is upon the ark of the testimony, and he shall not die; for I will appear in a cloud on the propitiatory. 
Thus shall Aaron enter into the holy place; with a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and having a ram for a whole burnt offering. 
And he shall put on the consecrated linen tunic, and he shall have on his flesh the linen drawers, and shall gird himself with a linen girdle, and shall put on the linen cap, they are holy garments; and he shall bathe all his body in water, and shall put them on. 
And he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin-offering, and one lamb for a whole burnt offering. 
And Aaron shall bring the calf for his own sin-offering, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house. 
And he shall take the two goats, and place them before the Lord by the door of the tabernacle of witness. 
and Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats, one lot for the Lord, and the other for the scape-goat. 
And Aaron shall bring forward the goat on which the lot for the Lord fell, and shall offer him for a sin-offering. 
and the goat upon which the lot of the scape-goat came, he shall present alive before the Lord, to make atonement upon him, so as to send him away as a scape-goat, and he shall send him into the wilderness. 
And Aaron shall bring the calf for his sin, and he shall make atonement for himself and for his house, and he shall kill the calf for his sin-offering. 
And he shall take his censer full of coals of fire off the altar, which is before the Lord; and he shall fill his hands with fine compound incense, and shall bring it within the veil. 
And he shall put the incense on the fire before the Lord, and the smoke of the incense shall cover the mercy-seat over the tables of testimony, and he shall not die. 
And he shall take of the blood of the calf, and sprinkle with his finger on the mercy-seat eastward: before the mercy-seat shall he sprinkle seven times of the blood with his finger. 
And he shall kill the goat for the sin-offering that is for the people, before the Lord; and he shall bring in of its blood within the veil, and shall do with its blood as he did with the blood of the calf, and shall sprinkle its blood on the mercy-seat, in front of the mercy-seat. 
and he shall make atonement for the sanctuary on account of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and for their trespasses in the matter of all their sins; and thus shall he do to the tabernacle of witness established amongst them in the midst of their uncleanness. 
and there shall be no man in the tabernacle of witness, when he goes in to make atonement in the holy place, until he shall have come out; and he shall make atonement for himself, and for his house, and for all the congregation of the children of Israel. 
And he shall come forth to the altar that is before the Lord, and he shall make atonement upon it; and he shall take of the blood of the calf, and of the blood of the goat, and shall put it on the horns of the altar round about. 
And he shall sprinkle some of the blood upon it seven times with his finger, and shall purge it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel. 
And he shall finish making atonement for the sanctuary and for the tabernacle of witness, and for the altar; and he shall make a cleansing for the priests, and he shall bring the living goat; 
and Aaron shall lay his hands on the head of the live goat, and he shall declare over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their unrighteousness, and all their sins; and he shall lay them upon the head of the live goat, and shall send him by the hand of a ready man into the wilderness. 
And the goat shall bear their unrighteousnesses upon him into a desert land; and Aaron shall send away the goat into the wilderness. 
And Aaron shall enter into the tabernacle of witness, and shall put off the linen garment, which he had put on, as he entered into the holy place, and shall lay it by there. 
And he shall bathe his body in water in the holy place, and shall put on his raiment, and shall go out and offer the whole burnt offering for himself and the whole burnt offering for the people: and shall make atonement for himself and for his house, and for the people, as for the priests. 
And he shall offer the fat for the sin-offering on the altar. 
And he that sends forth the goat that has been set apart to be let go, shall wash his garments, and bathe his body in water, and afterwards shall enter into the camp. 
And the calf for the sin-offering, and the goat for the sin-offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, they shall carry forth out of the camp, and burn them with fire, even their skins and their flesh and their dung. 
And he that burns them shall wash his garments, and bathe his body in water, and afterwards he shall enter into the camp. 
And this shall be a perpetual statute for you; in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you⌃ shall humble your souls, and shall do no work, the native and the stranger who abides amongst you. 
For in this day he shall make an atonement for you, to cleanse you from all your sins before the Lord, and you⌃ shall be purged. 
This shall be to you a most holy sabbath, a rest, and you⌃ shall humble your souls; it is a perpetual ordinance. 
The priest whoever they shall anoint shall make atonement, and whoever they shall consecrate to exercise the priestly office after his father; and he shall put on the linen robe, the holy garment. 
And he shall make atonement for the most holy place, and the tabernacle of witness; and he shall make atonement for the altar, and for the priests; and he shall make atonement for all the congregation. 
And this shall be to you a perpetual statute to make atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins: it shall be done once in the year, as the Lord commanded Moses. 
