Proverbs.
Chapter 29.
A reprover is better than a stiff-necked man: for when the latter is suddenly set on fire, there shall be no remedy. 
When the righteous are praised, the people will rejoice: but when the ungodly rule, men mourn. 
When a man loves wisdom, his father rejoices: but he that keeps harlots will waste wealth. 
A righteous king establishes a country: but a transgressor destroys it. 
He that prepares a net in the way of his own friend, entangles his own feet in it. 
A great snare is spread for a sinner: but the righteous shall be in joy and gladness. 
A righteous man knows how to judge for the poor: but the ungodly understands not knowledge; and the poor man has not an understanding mind. 
Lawless men burn down a city: but wise men turn away wrath. 
A wise man shall judge nations: but a worthless man being angry laughs and fears not. 
Bloody men hate a holy person, but the upright will seek his soul. 
A fool utters all is mind: but the wise reserves his in part. 
When a king hearkens to unjust language, all his subjects are transgressors. 
When the creditor and debtor meet together, the Lord oversees them both. 
When a king judges the poor in truth, his throne shall be established for a testimony. 
Stripes and reproofs give wisdom: but an erring child disgraces his parents. 
When the ungodly abound, sins abound: but when they fall, the righteous are warned. 
Chasten your son, and he shall give you rest; and he shall give honour to your soul. 
There shall be no interpreter to a sinful nation: but he that observes the law is blessed. 
A stubborn servant will not be reproved by words: for even if he understands, still he will not obey. 
If you see a man hasty in his words, know that the fool has hope rather than he. 
He that lives wantonly from a child, shall be a servant, and in the end shall grieve over himself. 
A furious man stirs up strife, and a passionate man digs up sin. 
Pride brings a man low, but the Lord upholds the humble-minded with honour. 
He that shares with a thief, hates his own soul: and if any having heard an oath uttered tell not of it, 
they fearing and reverencing men unreasonably have been overthrown, but he that trusts in the Lord shall rejoice. Ungodliness causes a man to stumble: but he that trusts in his master shall be safe. 
Many wait on the favour of rulers; but justice comes to a man from the Lord. 
A righteous man is an abomination to an unrighteous man, and the direct way is an abomination to the sinner. 
