Jezekiel.
Chapter 32.
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharao king of Egypt, and say to him, You are become like a lion of the nations, and as a serpent that is in the sea: and you did make assaults with your rivers, and did disturb the water with your feet, and did trample your rivers. 
Thus says the Lord; I will also cast over you the nets of many nations, and will bring you up with my hook: 
and I will stretch you upon the earth: the fields shall be covered with you, and I will cause all the birds of the sky to settle upon you, and I will fill with you all the wild beasts of the earth. 
And I will cast your flesh upon the mountains, and will saturate them with your blood. 
And the land shall be drenched with your dung, because of your multitude upon the mountains: I will fill the valleys with you. 
And I will veil the heavens when you are extinguished, and will darken the stars thereof; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light. 
All the bodies that give light in the sky, shall be darkened over you, and I will bring darkness upon the earth, says the Lord God. 
And I will provoke to anger the heart of many people, when I shall lead you captive amongst the nations, to a land which you have not known. 
And many nations shall mourn over you, and their kings shall be utterly amazed, when my sword flies in their faces, as they wait for their own fall from the day of your fall. 
For thus says the Lord God; The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you, 
with the swords of mighty men; and I will cast down your strength: they are all destroying ones from the nations, and they shall destroy the pride of Egypt, and all her strength shall be crushed. 
And I will destroy all her cattle from beside the great water; and the foot of man shall not trouble it any more, and the step of cattle shall no more trample it. 
Thus shall their waters then be at rest, and their rivers shall flow like oil, says the Lord, 
when I shall give up Egypt to destruction, and the land shall be made desolate with the fullness thereof; when I shall scatter all that dwell in it, and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
There is a lamentation, and you shall utter it; and the daughters of the nations shall utter it, even for Egypt, and they shall mourn for it over all the strength thereof, says the Lord God. 
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, lament over the strength of Egypt, for the nations shall bring down her daughters dead to the depth of the earth, to them that go down to the pit. 
They shall fall with him in the midst of them that are slain with the sword, and all his strength shall perish: the giants also shall say to you, 
Be you in the depth of the pit: to whom are you superior? yes, go down, and lie with the uncircumcised, in the midst of them that are slain with the sword. 
There are Assur and all his company: all his slain have been laid there: 
and their burial is in the depth of the pit, and his company are set around about his tomb: all the slain that fell by the sword, who had caused the fear of them to be upon the land of the living. 
There is Aelam and all his host round about his tomb: all the slain that fell by the sword, and the uncircumcised that go down to the deep of the earth, who caused their fear to be upon the land of the living: and they have received their punishment with them that go down to the pit, 
in the midst of the slain. 
There were laid Mosoch, and Thobel, and all his strength round about his tomb: all his slain men, all the uncircumcised, slain with the sword, who caused their fear to be in the land of the living. 
And they are laid with the giants that fell of old, who went down to Hades with their weapons of war: and they laid their swords under their heads, but their iniquities were upon their bones, because they terrified all men during their life. 
And you shall lie in the midst of the uncircumcised, with them that have been slain by the sword. 
There are laid the princes of Assur, who yielded their strength to a wound of the sword: these are laid with the slain, with them that go down to the pit. 
There are the princes of the north, even all the captains of Assur, who go down slain to Hades: they lie uncircumcised amongst the slain with the sword together with their terror and their strength, and they have received their punishment with them that go down to the pit. 
King Pharao shall see them, and shall be comforted over all their force, says the Lord God. 
For I have caused his fear to be upon the land of the living yet he shall lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that are slain with the sword, even Pharao, and all his multitude with him, says the Lord God. 
