Amos.
Chapter 2.
Thus says the Lord; For three sins of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away from it; because they burnt the bones of the king of Idumea to lime. 
But I will send forth a fire on Moab, and it shall devour the foundations of its cities: and Moab shall perish in weakness, with a shout, and with the sound of a trumpet. 
And I will destroy the judge out of her, and kill all her princes with him, says the Lord. 
Thus says the Lord; For three sins of the children of Judah, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because they have rejected the law of the Lord, and have not kept his ordinances, and their vain idols which they made, which their fathers followed, caused them to err. 
And I will send a fire on Juda, and it shall devour the foundations of Jerusalem. 
Thus says the Lord; for three sins of Israel, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for sandals, 
wherewith to tread on the dust of the earth, and they have struck upon the heads of the poor, and have perverted the way of the lowly: and a son and his father have gone into the same maid, that they might profane the name of their God. 
And binding their clothes with cords they have made them curtains near the altar, and they have drunk wine gained by extortion in the house of their God. 
Nevertheless I cut off the Amorite from before them, whose height was as the height of a cedar, and he was strong as an oak; and I dried up his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath. 
And I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you about in the desert forty years, that you⌃ should inherit the land of the Amorites. 
And I took of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for consecration. Are not these things so, you⌃ sons of Israel? says the Lord. 
But you⌃ gave the consecrated ones wine to drink; and you⌃ commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. 
Therefore, behold, I roll under you, as a waggon full of straw is rolled. 
And flight shall perish from the runner, and the strong shall not hold fast his strength, and the warrior shall not save his life: 
and the archer shall not withstand, and he that is swift of foot shall in no wise escape; and the horseman shall not save his life. 
And the strong shall find no confidence in power: the naked shall flee away in that day, says the Lord. 
