Proverbs.
Chapter 30.
These things says the man to them that trust in God; and I cease. 
For I am the most simple of all men, and there is not in me the wisdom of men. 
God has taught me wisdom, and I know the knowledge of the holy. 
Who has gone up to heaven, and come down? who has gathered the winds in his bosom? who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? who has dominion of all the ends of the earth? what is his name? or what is the name of his children? 
For all the words of God are tried in the fire, and he defends those that reverence him. 
Add not to his words, lest he reprove you, and you be made a liar. 
Two things I ask of you; take not favour from me before I die. 
Remove far from me vanity and falsehood: and give me not wealth or poverty; but appoint me what is needful and sufficient: 
lest I be filled and become false, and say, Who sees me? or be poor and steal, and swear vainly by the name of God. 
Deliver not a servant into the hands of his master, lest he curse you, and you be utterly destroyed. 
A wicked generation curse their father, and do not bless their mother. 
A wicked generation judge themselves to be just, but do not cleanse their way. 
A wicked generation have lofty eyes, and exalt themselves with their eyelids. 
A wicked generation have swords for teeth and jaw teeth as knives, so as to destroy and devour the lowly from the earth, and the poor of them from amongst men. 
The horse-leech had three dearly beloved daughters: and these three did not satisfy her; and the fourth was not contented so as to say, Enough. 
The grave, and the love of a woman, and the earth not filled with water; water also and fire will not say, It is enough. 
The eye that laughs to scorn a father, and dishonours the old age of a mother, let the ravens of the valleys pick it out, and let the young eagles devour it. 
Moreover there are three things impossible for me to comprehend, and the fourth I know not: 
the track of a flying eagle; and the ways of a serpent on a rock; and the paths of a ship passing through the sea; and the ways of a man in youth. 
Such is the way of an adulterous woman, who having washed herself from what she has done, says she has done nothing amiss. 
By three thing the earth is troubled, and the fourth it can’t bear: 
if a servant reign; or a fool be filled with food; 
or if a maidservant should cast out her own mistress; and if a hateful woman should marry a good man. 
And there are four very little things upon the earth, but these are wiser than the wise: 
the ants which are weak, and yet prepare their food in summer; 
the rabbits also are a feeble race, who make their houses in the rocks. 
The locusts have no king, and yet march orderly at one command. 
And the eft, which supports itself by its hands, and is easily taken, dwells in the fortresses of kings. 
And there are three things which go well, and a fourth which passes along finely. 
A lion's whelp, stronger than all other beasts, which turns not away, nor fears any beast; 
and a cock walking in boldly amongst the hens, and the goat leading the herd; and a king publicly speaking before a nation. 
If you abandon yourself to mirth, and stretch forth your hand in a quarrel, you shall be disgraced. 
Milk out milk, and there shall be butter, and if you wing one's nostrils there shall come out blood: so if you extort words, there will come forth quarrels and strifes. 
