Jezekiel.
Chapter 39.
And you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus says the Lord; Behold, I am against you, O Gog, Rhos prince of Mesoch and Thobel: 
and I will assemble you, and guide you, and raise you up on the extremity of the north, and I will bring you up upon the mountains of Israel. 
And I will destroy the bow out of your left hand, and your arrows out of your right hand, and I will cast you down on the mountains of Israel; 
and you and all that belong to you shall fall, and the nations that are with you shall be given to multitudes of birds, even to every fowl, and I have given you to all the wild beasts of the field to be devoured. 
You shall fall on the face of the field: for I have spoken it, says the Lord. 
And I will send a fire upon Gog, and the islands shall be securely inhabited: and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
And my holy name shall be known in the midst of my people Israel; and my holy name shall no more be profaned: and the nations shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel. 
Behold it is come, and you shall know that it shall be, says the Lord God; this is the day concerning which I have spoken. 
And they that inhabit the cities of Israel shall come forth, and make a fire with the arms, the shields and the spears, and bows and arrows, and hand-staves, and lances, and they shall keep fire burning with them for seven years: 
and they shall not take any wood out of the field, neither shall they cut any out of the forests, but they shall burn the weapons with fire: and they shall plunder those that plundered them, and spoil those that spoiled them, says the Lord. 
And it shall come to pass that in that day I will give to Gog a place of renown, a tomb in Israel, the burial-place of them that approach the sea: and they shall build round about the outlet of the valley, and there they shall bury Gog and all his multitude: and the place shall then be called the burial-place of Gog. 
And the house of Israel shall bury them, that the land may be cleansed in the space of seven months. 
Yes, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a place of renown in the day wherein it was glorified, says the Lord. 
And they shall appoint men continually to go over the land, to bury them that have been left on the face of the earth, to cleanse it after the space of seven months, and they shall seek them out. 
And every one that goes through the land, and sees a man's bone, shall set up a mark by it, until the buriers shall have buried it in the valley, the burial place of Gog. 
For the name of the city shall be Burial-place: so shall the land be cleansed. 
And you, son of man, say, Thus says the Lord; Say to every winged bird, and to all the wild beasts of the field, Gather yourselves, and come; gather yourselves from all places round about to my sacrifice, which I have made for you, even a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, and you⌃ shall eat flesh, and drink blood. 
You⌃ shall eat the flesh of mighty men, and you⌃ shall drink the blood of princes of the earth, rams, and calves and goats, and they are all fatted calves. 
And you⌃ shall eat fat till you⌃ are full, and shall drink wine till you⌃ are drunken, of my sacrifice which I have prepared for you. 
And you⌃ shall be filled at my table, eating horse, and rider, and mighty man, and every warrior, says the Lord. 
And I will set my glory amongst you, and all the nations shall see my judgement which I have wrought, and my hand which I have brought upon them. 
And the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God, from this day and onwards. 
And all the nations shall know that the house of Israel were led captive because of their sins, because they rebelled against me, and I turned away my face from them, and delivered them into the hands of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword. 
According to their uncleannesses and according to their transgressions did I deal with them, and I turned away my face from them. 
Therefore thus says the Lord God, Now will I turn back captivity in Jacob, and will have mercy on the house of Israel, and will be jealous for the sake of my holy name. 
And they shall bear their reproach, and the iniquity which they committed when they lived upon their land in peace. Yet there shall be none to terrify them 
when I have brought them back from the nations, and gathered them out of the countries of the nations: and I will be sanctified amongst them in the presence of the nations. 
And they shall know that I am the Lord their God, when I have been manifested to them amongst the nations. 
And I will no more turn away my face from them, because I have poured out my wrath upon the house of Israel, says the Lord God. 
