Daniel.
Chapter 10.
In the third year of Cyrus king of the Persians a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Baltasar; and the thing was true, and great power and understanding in the vision was given to him. 
In those days I Daniel was mourning three full weeks. 
I ate no pleasant bread, and no flesh or wine entered into my mouth, neither did I anoint myself with oil, until three whole weeks were accomplished. 
On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, I was near the great river, which is Tigris Eddekel. 
And I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a man clothed in linen, and his loins were girded with gold of Ophaz: 
and his body was as Tharsis, and his face was a the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his legs as the appearance of shining brass, and the voice of his words as the voice of a multitude. 
And I Daniel only saw the vision: and the men that were with me saw not the vision; but a great amazement fell upon them, and they fled in fear. 
So I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there was no strength left in me, and my glory was turned into corruption, and I retained no strength. 
Yet I heard the voice of his words: and when I heard him I was pricked in the heart, and I fell with my face to the earth. 
And, behold, a hand touched me, and it raised me on my knees. 
And he said to me, O Daniel, man greatly beloved, understand the words which I speak to you, and stand upright: for I am now sent to you. And when he had spoken to me this word, I stood trembling. 
And he said to me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that you did set your heart to understand, and to afflict yourself before the Lord your God, they words were heard, and I am come because of your words. 
But the prince of the kingdom of the Persians withstood me twenty-one days: and behold, Michael, one of the princes, came to help me; and I left him there with the chief of the kingdom of the Persians: 
and I have come to inform you of all that shall befall your people in the last days: for the vision is yet for many days. 
And when he had spoken with me according to these words, I turned my face to the ground, and was pricked in the heart. 
And, behold, as it were the likeness of a son of man touched my lips; and I opened my mouth, and spoke, and said to him that stood before me, O my lord, at the sight of you my bowels were turned within me, and I had no strength. 
And how shall your servant be able, O my lord, to speak with this my lord? and as for me, from henceforth strength will not remain in me, and there is no breath left in me. 
And there touched me again as it were the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me, 
and said to me, Fear not, man greatly beloved: peace be to you, quit yourself like a man, and be strong. And when he had spoken with me, I received strength, and said, Let my lord speak; for you have strengthened me. 
And he said, Know you, therefore I am come to you? and now I will return to fight with the prince of the Persians: and I was going in, and the prince of the Greeks came. 
But I will tell you that which is ordained in the scripture of truth: and there is no one that holds with me in these matters but Michael your prince. 
