Chronicles I.
Chapter 8.
Now Benjamin begot Bale his firstborn, and Asbel his second son, Aara the third, Noa the fourth, 
and Rapha the fifth. 
And the sons of Bale were, Adir, and Gera, and Abiud, 
and Abessue, and Noama, and Achia, 
and Gera, and Sephupham, and Uram. 
These were the sons of Aod: these are the heads of families to them that dwell in Gabee, and they removed them to Machanathi: 
and Nooma, and Achia and Gera, he removed them, and he begot Aza, and Jachicho. 
And Saarin begot children in the plain of Moab, after that he had sent away Osin and Baada his wives. 
And he begot of his wife Ada, Jolab, and Sebia, and Misa, and Melchas, 
and Jebus, and Zabia, and Marma: these were heads of families. 
And of Osin he begot Abitol, and Alphaal. 
And the sons of Alphaal; Obed, Misaal, Semmer: he built Ona, and Lod, and its towns: 
and Beria, and Sama; these were heads of families amongst the dwellers in Elam, and they drove out the inhabitants of Geth. 
And his brethren were Sosec, and Arimoth, 
and Zabadia, and Ored, and Eder, 
and Michael, and Jespha, and Joda, the sons of Beria: 
and Zabadia, and Mosollam, and Azaki, and Abar, 
and Isamari, and Jexlias, and Jobab, the sons of Elphaal: 
and Jakim, and Zachri, and Zabdi, 
and Elionai, and Salathi, 
and Elieli, and Adaia, and Baraia, and Samarath, sons of Samaith: 
and Jesphan, and Obed, and Eliel, 
and Abdon, and Zechri, and Anan, 
and Anania, and Ambri, and Aelam, and Anathoth, 
and Jathin, and Jephadias, and Phanuel, the sons of Sosec: 
and Samsari, and Saarias, and Gotholia, 
and Jarasia, and Eria, and Zechri, son of Iroam. 
These were heads of families, chiefs according to their generations: these lived in Jerusalem. 
And the father of Gabaon lived in Gabaon; and his wife's name was Moacha. 
And her firstborn son was Abdon, and Sur, and Kis, and Baal, and Nadab, and Ner, 
and Gedur and his brother, and Zacchur, and Makeloth. 
And Makeloth begot Samaa: for these lived in Jerusalem in the presence of their brethren with their brethren. 
And Ner begot Kis, and Kis begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, and Melchisue, and Aminadab, and Asabal. 
And the son of Jonathan was Meribaal; and Meribaal begot Micha. 
And the sons of Micha; Phithon, and Melach, and Tharach, and Achaz. 
And Achaz begot Jada, and Jada begot Salaemath, and Asmoth, and Zambri; and Zambri begot Maesa; 
and Maesa begot Baana: Rhaphaea was his son, Elasa his son, Esel his son. 
And Esel had six sons, and these were their name; Ezricam his firstborn, and Ismael, and Saraia, and Abdia, and Anan, and Asa: all these were the sons of Esel. 
And the sons of Asel his brother; Aelam his firstborn, and Jas the second, and Eliphalet the third. 
And the sons of Aelam were mighty men, bending the bow, and multiplying sons and grandsons, a hundred and fifty. All these were of the sons of Benjamin. 
