Genesis.
Chapter 41.
And it came to pass after two full years that Pharao had a dream. He thought he stood upon the bank of the river. 
And behold, there came up as it were out of the river seven cows, fair in appearance, and choice of flesh, and they fed on the sedge. 
And other seven cows came up after these out of the river, ill-favoured and lean-fleshed, and fed by the other cows on the bank of the river. 
And the seven ill-favoured and lean cows devoured the seven well-favoured and choice-fleshed cows; and Pharao awoke. 
And he dreamt again. And, behold, seven ears came up on one stalk, choice and good. 
And, behold, seven ears thin and blasted with the wind, grew up after them. 
And the seven thin ears and blasted with the wind devoured the seven choice and full ears; and Pharao awoke, and it was a dream. 
And it was morning, and his soul was troubled; and he sent and called all the interpreters of Egypt, and all her wise men; and Pharao related to them his dream, and there was no one to interpret it to Pharao. 
And the chief cupbearer spoke to Pharao, saying, I this day remember my fault: 
Pharao was angry with his servants, and put us in prison in the house of the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker. 
And we had a dream both in one night, I and he; we saw, each according to his dream. 
And there was there with us a young man, a Hebrew servant of the captain of the guard; and we related to him our dreams, and he interpreted them to us. 
And it came to pass, as he interpreted them to us, so also it happened, both that I was restored to my office, and that he was hanged. 
And Pharao having sent, called Joseph; and they brought him out from the prison, and shaved him, and changed his dress, and he came to Pharao. 
And Pharao said to Joseph, I have seen a vision, and there is no one to interpret it; but I have heard say concerning you that you did hear dreams and interpret them. 
And Joseph answered Pharao and said, Without God an answer of safety shall not be given to Pharao. 
And Pharao spoke to Joseph, saying, In my dream I thought I stood by the bank of the river; 
and there came up as it were out of the river, seven cows well-favoured and choice-fleshed, and they fed on the sedge. 
And behold seven other cows came up after them out of the river, evil and ill-favoured and lean-fleshed, such that I never saw worse in all the land of Egypt. 
And the seven ill-favoured and thin cows ate up the seven first good and choice cows. 
And they went into their bellies; and it was not perceptible that they had gone into their bellies, and their appearance was ill-favoured, as also at the beginning; and after I awoke I slept, 
and saw again in my sleep, and as it were seven ears came up on one stem, full and good. 
And other seven ears, thin and blasted with the wind, sprang up close to them. 
And the seven thin and blasted ears devoured the seven fine and full ears: so I spoke to the interpreters, and there was no one to explain it to me. 
And Joseph said to Pharao, The dream of Pharao is one; whatever God does, he has shown to Pharao. 
The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years; the dream of Pharao is one. 
And the seven thin kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven thin and blasted ears are seven years; there shall be seven years of famine. 
And as for the word which I have told Pharao, whatever God intends to do, he has shown to Pharao: 
behold, for seven years there is coming great plenty in all the land of Egypt. 
But there shall come seven years of famine after these, and they shall forget the plenty that shall be in all Egypt, and the famine shall consume the land. 
And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of the famine that shall be after this, for it shall be very grievous. 
And concerning the repetition of the dream to Pharao twice, it is because the saying which is from God shall be true, and God will hasten to accomplish it. 
Now then, look out a wise and prudent man, and set him over the land of Egypt. 
And let Pharao make and appoint local governors over the land; and let them take up a fifth part of all the produce of the land of Egypt for the seven years of the plenty. 
And let them gather all the food of these seven good years that are coming, and let the corn be gathered under the hand of Pharao; let food be kept in the cities. 
And the stored food shall be for the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; and the land shall not be utterly destroyed by the famine. 
And the word was pleasing in the sight of Pharao, and in the sight of all his servants. 
And Pharao said to all his servants, Shall we find such a man as this, who has the Spirit of God in him? 
And Pharao said to Joseph, Since God has showed you all these things, there is not a wiser or more prudent man than you. 
You shall be over my house, and all my people shall be obedient to your word; only in the throne will I excel you. 
And Pharao said to Joseph, Behold, I set you this day over all the land of Egypt. 
And Pharao took his ring off his hand, and put it on the hand of Joseph, and put on him a robe of fine linen, and put a necklace of gold about his neck. 
And he mounted him on the second of his chariots, and a herald made proclamation before him; and he set him over all the land of Egypt. 
And Pharao said to Joseph, I am Pharao; without you no one shall lift up his hand on all the land of Egypt. 
And Pharao called the name of Joseph, Psonthomphanech; and he gave him Aseneth, the daughter of Petephres, priest of Heliopolis, to wife. 
And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharao, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharao, and went through all the land of Egypt. 
And the land produced, in the seven years of plenty, whole handfuls of corn. 
And he gathered all the food of the seven years, in which was the plenty in the land of Egypt; and he laid up the food in the cities; the food of the fields of a city round about it he laid up in it. 
And Joseph gathered very much corn as the sand of the sea, until it could not be numbered, for there was no number of it. 
And to Joseph were born two sons, before the seven years of famine came, which Aseneth, the daughter of Petephres, priest of Heliopolis, bore to him. 
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn, Manasse; for God, said he, has made me forget all my toils, and all my father's house. 
And he called the name of the second, Ephraim; for God, said he, has increased me in the land of my humiliation. 
And the seven years of plenty passed away, which were in the land of Egypt. 
And the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph said; and there was a famine in all the land; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. 
And all the land of Egypt was hungry; and the people cried to Pharao for bread. And Pharao said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph, and do whatever he shall tell you. 
And the famine was on the face of all the earth; and Joseph opened all the granaries, and sold to all the Egyptians. 
And all countries came to Egypt to buy of Joseph, for the famine prevailed in all the earth. 
