Wisdom.
Chapter 9.
O God of my fathers, and Lord of mercy, who have made all things with your word, 
And ordained man through your wisdom, that he should have dominion over the creatures which you have made, 
And order the world according to equity and righteousness, and execute judgement with an upright heart: 
Give me wisdom, that sits by your throne; and reject me not from amongst your children: 
For I your servant and son of your handmaid am a feeble person, and of a short time, and too young for the understanding of judgement and laws. 
For though a man be never so perfect amongst the children of men, yet if your wisdom be not with him, he shall be nothing regarded. 
You have chosen me to be a king of your people, and a judge of your sons and daughters: 
You have commanded me to build a temple upon your holy mount, and an altar in the city wherein you dwell, a resemblance of the holy tabernacle, which you have prepared from the beginning. 
And wisdom was with you: which knows your works, and was present when you made the world, and knew what was acceptable in your sight, and right in your commandments. 
O send her out of your holy heavens, and from the throne of your glory, that being present she may labour with me, that I may know what is pleasing to you. 
For she knows and understands all things, and she shall lead me soberly in my doings, and preserve me in her power. 
So shall my works be acceptable, and then shall I judge your people righteously, and be worthy to sit in my father's seat. 
For what man is he that can know the counsel of God? or who can think what the will of the Lord is? 
For the thoughts of mortal men are miserable, and our devices are but uncertain. 
For the corruptible body presses down the soul, and the earthy tabernacle weighs down the mind that muses upon many things. 
And hardly do we guess aright at things that are upon earth, and with labour do we find the things that are before us: but the things that are in heaven who has searched out? 
And your counsel who has known, except you give wisdom, and send your Holy Spirit from above? 
For so the ways of them which lived on the earth were reformed, and men were taught the things that are pleasing to you, and were saved through wisdom. 
