Jeremias.
Chapter 20.
Now Paschor the son of Emmer, the priest, who also had been appointed chief of the house of the Lord, heard Jeremias prophesying these words. 
And he struck him, and cast him into the dungeon which was by the gate of the upper house that was set apart, which was by the house of the Lord. 
And Paschor brought Jeremias out of the dungeon: and Jeremias said to him, The Lord has not called your name Paschor, but Exile. 
For thus says the Lord, Behold, I will give you up to captivity with all your friends: and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall see it: and I will give you and all Juda into the hands of the king of Babylon, and they shall carry them captives, and cut them in pieces with swords. 
And I will give all the strength of this city, and all the labours of it, and all the treasures of the king of Juda, into the hands of his enemies, and they shall bring them to Babylon. 
And you and all the dwellers in your house shall go into captivity: and you shall die in Babylon, and there you and all your friends shall be buried, to whom you have prophesied lies. 
You have deceived me, O Lord, and I have been deceived: you have been strong, and has prevailed: I am become a laughing stock, I am continually mocked every day. 
For I will laugh with my bitter speech, I will call upon rebellion and misery: for the word of the Lord is become a reproach to me and a mockery all my days. 
Then I said, I will by no means name the name of the Lord, and I will no more at all speak in his name. But it was a burning fire flaming in my bones, and I am utterly weakened on all sides, and can’t bear up. 
For I have heard the reproach of many gathering round, saying, Conspire you⌃, and let us conspire together against him, even all his friends: watch his intentions, if perhaps he shall be deceived, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall be avenged on him. 
But the Lord was with me as a mighty man of war: therefore they persecuted me, but could not perceive anything against me; they were greatly confounded, for they perceived not their disgrace, which shall never be forgotten. 
O Lord, that prove just deeds, understanding the reins and hearts, let me see your vengeance upon them: for to you I have revealed my cause. 
Sing you⌃ to the Lord, sing praise to him: for he has rescued the soul of the poor from the hand of evil-doers. 
Cursed be the day wherein I was born: the day wherein my mother brought me forth, let it not be blessed. 
Cursed be the man who brought the glad tidings to my father, saying, A male child is born to you. 
Let that man rejoice as the cities which the Lord overthrew in wrath, and repented not: let him hear crying in the morning, and loud lamentation at noon; 
because he killed me not in the womb, and my mother became not my tomb, and her womb always great with me. 
Why is it that I came forth of the womb to see troubles and distresses, and my days are spent in shame? 
