Sirach.
Chapter 9.
Be not jealous over the wife of your bosom, and teach her not an evil lesson against yourself. 
Give not your soul to a woman to set her foot upon your substance. 
Meet not with an harlot, lest you fall into her snares. 
Use not much the company of a woman that is a singer, lest you be taken with her attempts. 
Gaze not on a maid, that you fall not by those things that are precious in her. 
Give not your soul to harlots, that you lose not your inheritance. 
Look not round about you in the streets of the city, neither wander you in the solitary place thereof. 
Turn away your eye from a beautiful woman, and look not upon another's beauty; for many have been deceived by the beauty of a woman; for herewith love is kindled as a fire. 
Sit not at all with another man's wife, nor sit down with her in your arms, and spend not your money with her at the wine; lest your heart incline to her, and so through your desire you fall into destruction. 
Forsake not an old friend; for the new is not comparable to him: a new friend is as new wine; when it is old, you shall drink it with pleasure. 
Envy not the glory of a sinner: for you know not what shall be his end. 
Delight not in the thing that the ungodly have pleasure in; but remember they shall not go unpunished to their grave. 
Keep you far from the man that has power to kill; so shall you not doubt the fear of death: and if you come to him, make no fault, lest he take away your life presently: remember that you go in the midst of snares, and that you walk upon the battlements of the city. 
As near as you can, guess at your neighbour, and consult with the wise. 
Let your talk be with the wise, and all your communication in the law of the most High. 
And let just men eat and drink with you; and let your glorying be in the fear of the Lord. 
For the hand of the artificer the work shall be commended: and the wise ruler of the people for his speech. 
A man of an ill tongue is dangerous in his city; and he that is rash in his talk shall be hated. 
