Chronicles I.
Chapter 28.
And David assembled all the chief men of Israel, the chief of the judges, and all the chief men of the courses of attendance on the person of the king, and the captains of thousands and hundreds, and the treasurers, and the lords of his substance, and of all the king's property, and of his sons, together with the eunuchs, and the mighty men, and the warriors of the army, at Jerusalem. 
And David stood in the midst of the assembly, and said, Hear me, my brethren, and my people: it was in my heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and a place for the feet of our Lord, and I prepared materials suitable for the building: 
but God said, You shall not build me a house to call my name upon it, for you are a man of war, and have shed blood. 
Yet the Lord God of Israel chose me out of the whole house of my father to be king over Israel for ever; and he chose Juda as the kingly house, and out of the house of Juda he chose the house of my father; and amongst the sons of my father he preferred me, that I should be king over all Israel. 
And of all my sons, (for the Lord has given me many sons,) he has chosen Solomon my son, to set him on the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel. 
And God said to me, Solomon your son shall build my house and my court: for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be to him a father. 
And I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he continue to keep my commandments, and my judgements, as at this day. 
And now I charge you before the whole assembly of the Lord, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek all the commandments of the Lord our God, that you⌃ may inherit the good land, and leave it for your sons to inherit after you for ever. 
And now, my son Solomon, know the God of your fathers, and serve him with a perfect heart and willing soul: for the Lord searches all hearts, and knows every thought: if you seek him, he will be found of you; but if you should forsake him, he will forsake you for ever. 
See now, for the Lord has chosen you to build him a house for a sanctuary, be strong and do it. 
And David gave Solomon his son the plan of the temple, and its buildings, and its treasuries, and its upper chambers, and the inner store-rooms, and the place of the atonement, 
and the plan which he had in his mind of the courts of the house of the Lord, and of all the chambers round about, designed for the treasuries of the house of God, and of the treasuries of the holy things, and of the chambers for resting: 
and the plan of the courses of the priests and Levites, for all the work of the service of the house of the Lord, and of the stores of vessels for ministration of the service of the house of the Lord. 
And he gave him the account of their weight, both of gold and silver vessels. 
He gave him the weight of the candlesticks, and of the lamps. 
He gave him likewise the weight of the tables of show bread, of each table of gold, and likewise of the tables of silver: 
also of the flesh hooks, and vessels for drink-offering, and golden bowls: and the weight of the gold and silver articles, and censers, and bowls, according to the weight of each. 
And he showed him the weight of the utensils of the altar of incense, which was of pure gold, and the plan of the chariot of the cherubs that spread out their wings, and overshadowed the ark of the covenant of the Lord. 
David gave all to Solomon in the Lord's handwriting, according to the knowledge given him of the work of the pattern. 
And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong, and play the man, and do: fear not, neither be terrified; for the Lord my God is with you; he will not forsake you, and will not fail you, until you have finished all the work of the service of the house of the Lord. And behold the pattern of the temple, even his house, and its treasury, and the upper chambers, and the inner store-rooms, and the place of propitiation, and the plan of the house of the Lord. 
And see, here are the courses of the priests and Levites for all the service of the house of the Lord, and there shall be with you men for every workmanship, and every one of ready skill in every are: also the chief men and all the people, ready for all your commands. 
