Exodus.
Chapter 27.
And you shall make an altar of incorruptible wood, of five cubits in the length, and five cubits in the breadth; the altar shall be square, and the height of it shall be of three cubits. 
And you shall make the horns on the four corners; the horns shall be of the same piece, and you shall overlay them with brass. 
And you shall make a rim for the altar; and its covering and its cups, and its flesh hooks, and its fire-pan, and all its vessels shall you make of brass. 
And you shall make for it a brazen grate with network; and you shall make for the grate four brazen rings under the four sides. 
And you shall put them below under the grate of the altar, and the grate shall extend to the middle of the altar. 
And you shall make for the altar staves of incorruptible wood, and you shall overlay them with brass. 
And you shall put the staves into the rings; and let the staves be on the sides of the altar to carry it. 
You shall make it hollow with boards: according to what was showed you in the mount, so you shall make it. 
And you shall make a court for the tabernacle, curtains of the court of fine linen spun on the south side, the length of a hundred cubits for one side. 
And their pillars twenty, and twenty brazen sockets for them, and their rings and their clasps of silver. 
Thus shall there be to the side towards the north curtains of a hundred cubits in length; and their pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty of brass, and the rings and the clasps of the pillars, and their sockets overlaid with silver. 
And in the breadth of the tabernacle towards the west curtains of fifty cubits, their pillars ten and their sockets ten. 
And in the breadth of the tabernacle towards the south, curtains of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. 
And the height of the curtains shall be of fifty cubits for the one side of the gate; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And for the second side the height of the curtains shall be of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And a veil for the door of the court, the height of it of twenty cubits of blue linen, and of purple, and spun scarlet, and of fine linen spun with the are of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four. 
All the pillars of the court round about overlaid with silver, and their chapiters silver and their brass sockets. 
And the length of the court shall be a hundred cubits on each side, and the breadth fifty on each side, and the height five cubits of fine linen spun, and their sockets of brass. 
And all the furniture and all the instruments and the pins of the court shall be of brass. 
And do you charge the children of Israel, and let them take for you refined pure olive-oil beaten to burn for light, that a lamp may burn continually 
in the tabernacle of the testimony, without the veil that is before the ark of the covenant, shall Aaron and his sons burn it from evening until morning, before the Lord: it is a perpetual ordinance throughout your generations of the children of Israel. 
