Proverbs.
Chapter 21.
As a rush of water, so is the king's heart in God's hand: he turns it wherever he may desire to point out. 
Every man seems to himself righteous; but the Lord directs the hearts. 
To do justly and to speak truth, are more pleasing to God than the blood of sacrifices. 
A high-minded man is stout-hearted in his pride; and the lamp of the wicked is sin. 
He that gathers treasures with a lying tongue pursues vanity on to the snares of death. 
Destruction shall lodge with the ungodly; for they refuse to do justly. 
To the froward God sends froward ways; for his works are pure and right. 
It is better to dwell in a corner on the house-top, than in plastered rooms with unrighteousness, and in an open house. 
The soul of the ungodly shall not be pitied by any man. 
When an intemperate man is punished the simple becomes wiser: and a wise man understanding will receive knowledge. 
A righteous man understands the hearts of the ungodly: and despises the ungodly for their wickedness. 
He that stops his ears from hearing the poor, himself also shall cry, and there shall be none to hear him. 
A secret gift calms anger: but he that forbears to give stirs up strong wrath. 
It is the joy of the righteous to do judgement: but a holy man is abominable with evil-doers. 
A man that wanders out of the way of righteousness, shall rest in the congregation of giants. 
A poor man loves mirth, loving wine and oil in abundance; 
and a transgressor is the abomination of a righteous man. 
It is better to dwell in a wilderness than with a quarrelsome and talkative and passionate woman. 
A desirable treasure will rest on the mouth of the wise; but foolish men will swallow it up. 
The way of righteousness and mercy will find life and glory. 
A wise man assaults strong cities, and demolishes the fortress in which the ungodly trusted. 
He that keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from trouble. 
A bold and self-willed and insolent man is called a pest: and he that remembers injuries is a transgressor. 
Desires kill the sluggard; for his hands do not choose to do anything. 
An ungodly man entertains evil desires all the day: but the righteous is unsparingly merciful and compassionate. 
The sacrifices of the ungodly are abomination to the Lord, for they offer them wickedly. 
A false witness shall perish; but an obedient man will speak cautiously. 
An ungodly man impudently withstands with his face; but the upright man himself understands his ways. 
There is no wisdom, there is no courage, there is no counsel against the ungodly. 
A horse is prepared for the day of battle; but help is of the Lord. 
