Jezekiel.
Chapter 26.
And it came to pass in the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, because Sor has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is crushed: the nations are destroyed: she is turned to me: she that was full is made desolate: 
therefore thus says the Lord; Behold, I am against you, O Sor, and I will bring up many nations against you, as the sea comes up with its waves. 
And they shall cast down the walls of Sor, and shall cast down your towers: and I will scrape her dust from off her, and make her a bare rock. 
She shall be in the midst of the sea a place for repairing nets: for I have spoken it, says the Lord: and it shall be a spoil for the nations. 
And her daughters which are in the field shall be slain with the sword, and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
For thus says the Lord; Behold, I will bring up against you, O Sor, Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon from the north: he is a king of kings, with horses, and chariots, and horsemen, and a concourse of very many nations. 
He shall kill your daughters that are in the field with the sword, and shall set a watch against you, and build forts around you, and carry a rampart round against you, and set up warlike works, and array his spears against you. 
He shall cast down with his swords your walls and your towers. 
By reason of your multitude of his horses their dust shall cover you, and by reason of the sound of his horsemen and the wheels of his chariots the walls shall be shaken, when he enters into your gates, as one entering into a city from the plain. 
With the hoofs of his horses they shall trample all your streets: he shall kill your people with the sword, and shall bring down to the ground the support of your strength. 
And he shall prey upon your power, and plunder your substance, and shall cast down your walls, and break down your pleasant houses: and he shall cast your stones and your timber and your dust into the midst of your sea. 
And he shall destroy the multitude of your musicians, and the sound of your lutes shall be heard no more. 
And I will make you a bare rock: you shall be a place to spread nets upon; you shall be built no more: for I the Lord have spoken it, says the Lord. 
For thus says the Lord God to Sor; Shall not the isles shake at the sound of your fall, while the wounded are groaning, while they have drawn a sword in the midst of you? 
And all the princes of the nations of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and shall take off their crowns from their heads, and shall take off their embroidered raiment: they shall be utterly amazed; they shall sit upon the ground, and fear their own destruction, and shall groan over you. 
And they shall take up a lamentation for you, and shall say to you, How are you destroyed from out of the sea, the renowned city, that brought her terror upon all her inhabitants. 
And the isles shall be alarmed at the day of your fall. 
For thus says the Lord God; When I shall make the city desolate, as the cities that shall not be inhabited, when I have brought the deep up upon you, 
and great waters shall cover you; and I shall bring you down to them that go down to the pit, to the people of old time, and shall cause you to dwell in the depths of the earth, as in everlasting desolation, with them that go down to the pit, that you may not be inhabited, nor stand upon the land of life; 
I will make you a destruction, and you shall be no more for ever, says the Lord God. 
