Proverbs.
Chapter 3.
My son, forget not my laws; but let your heart keep my words: 
for length of existence, and years of life, and peace, shall they add to you. 
Let not mercy and truth forsake you; but bind them about your neck: 
so shall you find favour: and do you provide things honest in the sight of the Lord, and of men. 
Trust in God with all your heart; and be not exalted in your own wisdom. 
In all your ways acquaint yourself with her, that she may rightly direct your paths. 
Be not wise in your own conceit; but fear God, and depart from all evil. 
Then shall there be health to your body, and good keeping to your bones. 
Honour the Lord with your just labours, and give him the first of your fruits of righteousness: 
that your storehouses may be completely filled with corn, and that your presses may burst forth with wine. 
My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord; nor faint when you are rebuked of him: 
for whom the Lord loves, he rebukes, and scourges every son whom he receives. 
Blessed is the man who has found wisdom, and the mortal who knows prudence. 
For it is better to traffic for her, than for treasures of gold and silver. 
And she is more valuable than precious stones: no evil thing shall resist her: she is well known to all that approach her, and no precious thing is equal to her in value. 
For length of existence and years of life are in her right hand; and in her left hand are wealth and glory: out of her mouth proceeds righteousness, and she carries law and mercy upon her tongue. 
Her ways are good ways, and all her paths are peaceful. 
She is a tree of life to all that lay hold upon her; and she is a secure help to all that stay themselves on her, as on the Lord. 
God by wisdom founded the earth, and by prudence he prepared the heavens. 
By understanding were the depths broken up, and the clouds dropped water. 
My son, let them not pass from you, but keep my counsel and understanding: 
that your soul may live, and that there may be grace round your neck; and it shall be health to your flesh, and safety to your bones: 
that you may go confidently in peace in all your ways, and that your foot may not stumble. 
For if you rest, you shall be undismayed; and if you sleep, you shall slumber sweetly. 
And you shall not be afraid of alarm coming upon you, neither of approaching attacks of ungodly men. 
For the Lord shall be over all your ways, and shall establish your foot that you be not moved. 
Forbear not to do good to the poor, whenever your hand may have power to help him. 
Say not, Come back another time, to-morrow I will give; while you are able to do him good: for you know not what the next day will bring forth. 
Devise not evil against your friend, living near you and trusting in you. 
Be not ready to quarrel with a man without a cause, lest he do you some harm. 
Procure not the reproaches of bad men, neither do you covet their ways. 
For every transgressor is unclean before the Lord; neither does he sit amongst the righteous. 
The curse of God is in the houses of the ungodly; but the habitations of the just are blessed. 
The Lord resists the proud; but he gives grace to the humble. 
The wise shall inherit glory; but the ungodly have exalted their own dishonour. 
