John.
Chapter 17.
After saying these things, Jesus lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, “Father, the hour has come; glorify yoʋr Son so that yoʋr Son may also glorify yoʋ, 
just as yoʋ have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom yoʋ have given him. 
This is eternal life, that they may know yoʋ, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom yoʋ have sent. 
I have glorified yoʋ on earth. I have completed the work yoʋ have given me to do. 
And now, Father, glorify me in yoʋr presence with the glory that I had with yoʋ before the world existed. 
“I have revealed yoʋr name to the people yoʋ have given me out of the world. They were yoʋrs; yoʋ gave them to me, and they have kept yoʋr word. 
They now know that everything yoʋ have given me is from yoʋ. 
For I have given them the words that yoʋ gave me, and they have received them and truly know that I came from yoʋ. They have also come to believe that yoʋ sent me. 
I ask on their behalf; I do not ask on behalf of the world, but on behalf of those yoʋ have given me, for they are yoʋrs. 
All I have is yoʋrs, and all yoʋ have is mine, and I have been glorified in them. 
I will no longer remain in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to yoʋ. Holy Father, keep them in yoʋr name, which yoʋ have given me, so that they may be one, just as we are one. 
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in yoʋr name. I have guarded those yoʋ have given me, and not one of them has perished except the son of destruction, so that the Scripture might be fulfilled. 
But now I am coming to yoʋ, and I speak these things in the world so that they may have my joy made full within them. 
I have given them yoʋr word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
I do not ask yoʋ to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. 
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
Sanctify them by yoʋr truth; yoʋr word is truth. 
Just as yoʋ have sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. 
For their sakes I sanctify myself, so that they too may be sanctified by the truth. 
“I do not ask on behalf of them alone, but also on behalf of those who will believe in me through their word, 
that they may all be one, just as yoʋ, Father, are in me, and I am in yoʋ, that they also may be one in us, so that the world may believe that yoʋ sent me. 
I have given them the glory that yoʋ gave me, so that they may be one, just as we are one, 
I in them and yoʋ in me, so that they may be perfected into one, and so that the world may know that yoʋ have sent me and have loved them just as yoʋ have loved me. 
Father, I want those yoʋ have given me to be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory, which yoʋ gave me because yoʋ loved me before the foundation of the world. 
Righteous Father, though the world does not know yoʋ, I know yoʋ, and these men know that yoʋ have sent me. 
I have made yoʋr name known to them, and will continue to make it known, so that the love with which yoʋ have loved me may be in them, and so that I may be in them.” 
