Luke.
Chapter 2.
In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered in a census. 
This was the first census, and it took place when Quirinius was governor of Syria. 
So everyone went to be registered, each to his own town. 
Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David, 
to register himself along with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. 
While they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to give birth, 
and she gave birth to her firstborn son. Then she wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in the manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. 
In the same region there were shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. 
And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. 
But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which will be for all the people. 
For to you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. 
This will be the sign for you: You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger.” 
Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, 
“Glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth, good will among men.” 
When the angels had gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.” 
So they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in the manger. 
After seeing him, they made widely known what they had been told about the child, 
and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds told them. 
But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. 
Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told. 
When the eight days were completed for his circumcision, he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. 
And when the days of their purification were completed according to the law of Moses, Joseph and Mary brought Jesus up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord 
(just as it is written in the law of the Lord, “Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord”). 
They also went up to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord: “a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.” 
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem named Simeon who was righteous and devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. 
It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. 
So he came in the Spirit into the temple courts, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him what was customary under the law, 
Simeon took him in his arms and blessed God, saying, 
“Now, Master, yoʋ are releasing yoʋr servant in peace according to yoʋr word, 
for my eyes have seen yoʋr salvation, 
which yoʋ have prepared in the presence of all peoples, 
a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for the glory of yoʋr people Israel.” 
Joseph and the child's mother were amazed at what was being said about him. 
Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, the child's mother, “Behold, this child is appointed to bring about the falling and rising of many in Israel and to be a sign that will be spoken against, 
so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed. And a sword will pierce yoʋr own soul as well.” 
There was also a prophetess, Anna the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was far advanced in days. Her husband had died seven years after they were married, 
and she was a widow of about eighty-four years of age. She did not depart from the temple, but served night and day with fasting and prayer. 
She came at that very hour and began giving praise to the Lord and speaking about the child to all who were waiting for redemption in Jerusalem. 
When Joseph and Mary had finished everything that was required by the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth. 
And the child grew and became strong in spirit; he was filled with wisdom, and the favor of God was upon him. 
Now Jesus' parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. 
When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast. 
And when they had completed their days there and started returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. But Joseph did not know it, and neither did Jesus' mother. 
They assumed that he was in the company of travelers, so they went a day's journey before they began looking for him among their relatives and acquaintances. 
When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, looking for him. 
After three days, they found him in the temple courts, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. 
And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. 
When his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, “Child, why have yoʋ treated us like this? Behold, yoʋr father and I have been looking for yoʋ in great distress.” 
He said to them, “Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?” 
But they did not understand what he said to them. 
Then he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was obedient to them. And his mother kept all these things in her heart. 
And Jesus advanced in wisdom and in stature, and in favor with God and men. 
