Luke.
Chapter 15.
Now all the tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to Jesus to listen to him. 
But the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, “This man receives sinners and eats with them.” 
So Jesus told them this parable: 
“What man among you, who has a hundred sheep and loses one of them, does not leave the other ninety-nine in the wilderness and go after the one that is lost until he finds it? 
And when he finds it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. 
Then he returns home and calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my lost sheep.’ 
I tell you, in the same way there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents, than over ninety-nine righteous people who have no need of repentance. 
“Or what woman who has ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? 
And when she finds it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my lost coin.’ 
In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents.” 
Then he said, “There was a man who had two sons. 
The younger of the two said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of property that will belong to me.’ So his father divided his assets between the two sons. 
A few days later, the younger son gathered together all that he had and went on a journey to a distant country, and there he squandered his property by living recklessly. 
When he had spent all that he had, a severe famine arose throughout that country, and he began to be in need. 
So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him to his fields to feed pigs. 
He longed to fill his belly with the carob pods the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything. 
When he came to his senses, he said, ‘How many of my father's hired workers have an abundance of bread, while I perish with hunger! 
I will arise, go to my father, and say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven and before yoʋ. 
I am no longer worthy to be called yoʋr son; make me like one of yoʋr hired workers.” ’ 
So he arose and went to his father. But while he was still far away, his father saw him and was moved with compassion. So he ran to his son, threw his arms around his neck, and kissed him. 
Then the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before yoʋ. I am no longer worthy to be called yoʋr son.’ 
But the father said to his servants, ‘Bring out the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet. 
Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let us eat and celebrate. 
For this son of mine was dead but is now alive again; he was lost but has now been found.’ And they began to celebrate. 
“Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing. 
So he called one of the servants over and asked him what was happening. 
The servant said to him, ‘Yoʋr brother has come, and yoʋr father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.’ 
But the older son was angry and would not go in. So his father came out and began pleading with him. 
But he answered his father, ‘Behold, all these years I have served yoʋ and have never disobeyed yoʋr command, yet yoʋ have never given me even a young goat so that I might celebrate with my friends. 
But when this son of yoʋrs came, who has devoured yoʋr assets with prostitutes, yoʋ killed the fattened calf for him.’ 
The father said to him, ‘Son, yoʋ are always with me, and everything I have is yoʋrs. 
But it was proper to celebrate and rejoice, for yoʋr brother was dead but is now alive again; he was lost but has now been found.’ ” 
