Luke.
Chapter 20.
One day, as Jesus was teaching the people in the temple courts and preaching the gospel, the priests and the scribes came with the elders 
and said to him, “Tell us, by what authority are yoʋ doing these things, or who is it that gave yoʋ this authority?” 
He answered them, “I will also ask you one question. Tell me: 
Did John's authority to baptize come from heaven or from men?” 
So they discussed it among themselves, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why did you not believe him?’ 
But if we say, ‘From men,’ all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet.” 
So they answered that they did not know where it came from. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I am doing these things.” 
Then he began to tell the people this parable: “A man planted a vineyard, leased it to farmers, and left the country for a long time. 
At harvest time he sent a servant to the farmers so that they would give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the farmers beat him and sent him away empty-handed. 
So he proceeded to send another servant, but they beat him also, treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed. 
Then he proceeded to send a third, but they wounded him as well and threw him out. 
So the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What should I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps when they see him they will have respect for him.’ 
But when they saw him, the farmers discussed it among themselves, saying, ‘This is the heir. Come, let us kill him so that the inheritance will be ours.’ 
So they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them? 
He will come and destroy those farmers and give the vineyard to others.” When the people heard this, they said, “Certainly not!” 
But Jesus looked at them and said, “What then is the meaning of this Scripture: ‘The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone’? 
Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, but anyone on whom it falls will be crushed.” 
Then the chief priests and the scribes wanted to arrest him at that very hour, for they knew he had spoken this parable against them, but they were afraid. 
So they watched him and sent spies who pretended to be sincere in order to catch him in something he said, so that they could deliver him up to the jurisdiction and authority of the governor. 
The spies asked him, “Teacher, we know that yoʋ speak and teach correctly, and that yoʋ do not show partiality but teach the way of God in truth. 
Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?” 
But perceiving their craftiness, Jesus said to them, “Why are you testing me? 
Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription does it have?” They answered, “Caesar's.” 
He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.” 
So they were not able to catch him in what he said in the presence of the people. And being amazed at his answer, they fell silent. 
Now some of the Sadducees, who deny that there is a resurrection, came up and asked Jesus, 
“Teacher, Moses wrote for us: ‘If a man's brother dies, leaving a wife but no children, that man must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.’ 
Now there were seven brothers. The first married a woman and died childless. 
The second married the widow, and he also died childless. 
Likewise, the third also married her. In the same way all seven died, leaving no children. 
Last of all, the woman also died. 
In the resurrection, therefore, which of them will she be the wife of? For the seven all had her as a wife.” 
Jesus answered them, “The people of this age marry and are given in marriage, 
but those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are they given in marriage. 
Indeed they can no longer die, for they are like angels. They are sons of God, since they are sons of the resurrection. 
But even Moses indicated that the dead are raised, when he said in the passage about the burning bush, ‘The Lord, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’ 
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for to him all are alive.” 
Then some of the scribes responded, “Teacher, yoʋ have spoken well.” 
And they no longer dared to ask him anything. 
Then Jesus said to them, “How can it be said that the Christ is the Son of David? 
Even David himself says in the Book of Psalms, ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand 
until I make yoʋr enemies a footstool for yoʋr feet.” ’ 
David calls him ‘Lord,’ so how is he his son?” 
As all the people were listening, Jesus said to his disciples, 
“Beware of the scribes. They like to walk around in long robes, and they love to be greeted in the marketplaces and to have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at banquets. 
They devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive a more severe judgment.” 
