Matthew.
Chapter 6.
“Be careful not to give to the needy in front of others to be seen by them, otherwise you have no reward with your Father in heaven. 
So when yoʋ give to the needy, do not sound a trumpet before yoʋ, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. 
But when yoʋ give to the needy, do not let yoʋr left hand know what yoʋr right hand is doing, 
so that yoʋr giving may be in secret. Then yoʋr Father who sees in secret will himself reward yoʋ openly. 
“When yoʋ pray, do not be like the hypocrites. For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and at the street corners so that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. 
But when yoʋ pray, go into yoʋr inner room, shut yoʋr door, and pray to yoʋr Father who is in secret. Then yoʋr Father who sees in secret will reward yoʋ openly. 
“And when you pray, do not babble on repetitiously like the Gentiles do, for they think they will be heard because of their use of many words. 
Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. 
Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be yoʋr name. 
Yoʋr kingdom come. Yoʋr will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. 
Give us this day our daily bread. 
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. 
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For yoʋrs is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. 
For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. 
But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. 
“When you fast, do not be gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces so that they may be seen by others to be fasting. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. 
But when yoʋ fast, anoint yoʋr head and wash yoʋr face, 
so that yoʋ may not be seen by others to be fasting, but by yoʋr Father who is in secret. Then yoʋr Father who sees in secret will reward yoʋ. 
“Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. 
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. 
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
“The lamp of the body is the eye. If then yoʋr eye is clear, yoʋr whole body will be full of light. 
But if yoʋr eye is bad, yoʋr whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within yoʋ is darkness, how great is the darkness! 
“No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. 
“Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat and what you will drink, or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? 
Look at the birds of the sky: They do not sow or reap or gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? 
Which of you by being anxious can add a single moment to yoʋr span of life? 
And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: They do not toil or spin, 
yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these. 
Now if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? 
Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What will we eat?’ or, ‘What will we drink?’ or, ‘What will we wear?’ 
For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. 
But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. 
“Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. 
