2 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
I solemnly charge yoʋ therefore in the presence of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead when he appears along with his kingdom: 
Preach the word, be prepared whether the time is favorable or not, reprove, rebuke, and encourage, with complete patience and careful instruction. 
For a time is coming when people will not tolerate sound doctrine, but having itching ears they will surround themselves with teachers to suit their own desires. 
They will turn their ears away from the truth and be turned aside to myths. 
But as for yoʋ, be sober-minded in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, and fulfill yoʋr ministry. 
For I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. 
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. 
There is now laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have longed for his appearing. 
Make every effort to come to me soon. 
For Demas, who is in love with this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica. Crescens has gone to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia. 
Luke alone is with me. Get Mark and bring him with yoʋ, for he is useful to me for ministry. 
Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus. 
When yoʋ come, bring the cloak that I left with Carpus in Troas, as well as my scrolls, especially the parchments. 
Alexander the coppersmith did me great harm. May the Lord repay him according to his works. 
Yoʋ yoʋrself should be on guard against him, for he has vehemently opposed our message. 
At my first defense no one came to stand by me; instead, they all deserted me. May it not be counted against them. 
But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the proclamation might be fully made and all the Gentiles might hear. And I was rescued from the lion's mouth. 
And the Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Greet Prisca and Aquila and the household of Onesiphorus. 
Erastus stayed in Corinth, and Trophimus, who was sick, I left in Miletus. 
Make every effort to come before winter. Eubulus greets yoʋ, and so do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers. 
The Lord Jesus Christ be with yoʋr spirit. Grace be with you. Amen. 
