Acts.
Chapter 20.
After the uproar ceased, Paul summoned the disciples, said goodbye, and departed to go to Macedonia. 
After going through those regions and encouraging the believers with many words, he came to Greece, 
where he stayed for three months. As he was about to set sail for Syria, a plot was made against him by the Jews, so the decision was made to return by way of Macedonia. 
Sopater of Berea accompanied him as far as Asia, and so did Aristarchus and Secundus of Thessalonica, Gaius of Derbe, Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia. 
These men went on ahead and waited for us in Troas. 
But we sailed from Philippi after the Feast of Unleavened Bread, and five days later we came to them at Troas, where we stayed for seven days. 
On the first day of the week, as the disciples were gathered together to break bread, Paul addressed them, intending to depart the next day, and he prolonged his message until midnight. 
Now there were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered together, 
and a young man named Eutychus, who was sitting on the window sill, sank into a deep sleep while Paul continued speaking for a long time. Overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was picked up dead. 
But Paul went down and threw himself on the young man. Taking him in his arms, he said, “Do not be alarmed, for his life is in him.” 
Then Paul went back upstairs, and after he had broken bread and eaten, he conversed with the disciples for a long time, until dawn; that was how he departed. 
And they brought the boy home alive and were comforted beyond measure. 
Then we went to the ship and set sail for Assos, intending to take Paul on board there, for that is what he had arranged, since he himself intended to go by land. 
When he met us in Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene. 
We set sail from there and arrived off Chios on the following day. The next day we reached Samos and stayed in Trogyllium, and the day after that we came to Miletus. 
For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so as not to spend time in Asia, because he was hurrying to arrive in Jerusalem, if possible, by the day of Pentecost. 
From Miletus Paul sent to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church. 
When they came to him, he said to them, “You yourselves know how I lived the whole time I was with you, from the day I first set foot in Asia, 
serving the Lord with all humility and with many tears and trials, which came upon me because of the plots of the Jews. 
You know that I did not hold back from declaring to you anything that was beneficial, and from teaching you in public and from house to house, 
testifying to both Jews and Greeks about repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus. 
And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, compelled by the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to me there, 
except that the Holy Spirit testifies in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me. 
But I take no account of these things, nor do I regard my life as precious to myself, if only I may complete my course with joy and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. 
“And now, behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about preaching the kingdom of God will see my face again. 
Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of you all. 
For I have not held back from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. 
So keep watch over yourselves and over the entire flock. The Holy Spirit has appointed you as their overseers, to shepherd the church of our Lord and God, which he obtained with his own blood. 
For I know that after my departure fierce wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock. 
Even from your own number men will rise up, speaking perverse things to draw the disciples away after them. 
Therefore be watchful, remembering that, night and day, for three years I did not stop admonishing each one of you, with tears. 
And now, brothers, I entrust you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all who are sanctified. 
I coveted no one's silver, gold, or clothing. 
You yourselves know that these hands of mine ministered to my own needs and to the needs of those who were with me. 
In all things I have shown you that we must labor in this way and help those who are weak, remembering what the Lord Jesus himself said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ” 
After saying these things, Paul knelt down and prayed with them all. 
There was much weeping among them all, and they threw their arms around Paul's neck and kissed him, 
being especially grieved over his statement that they would see his face no more. Then they accompanied him to the ship. 
