Mark.
Chapter 2.
A few days later Jesus went to Capernaum again, and the people heard that he was at home. 
Immediately many were gathered together, so that there was no longer any room, not even at the door, and he was speaking the word to them. 
Then some people came to him, bringing a paralytic carried by four men. 
Since they were not able to come near Jesus because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was. After digging through it, they let down the mat on which the paralytic was lying. 
When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, “Son, yoʋr sins are forgiven yoʋ.” 
Now some of the scribes were sitting there and questioning in their hearts: 
“Why does this man speak such blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?” 
Immediately Jesus knew in his spirit that they were discussing these questions among themselves, so he said to them, “Why are you questioning these things in your hearts? 
Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, ‘Yoʋr sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise, take up yoʋr mat, and walk’? 
But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins”—he said to the paralytic— 
“I say to yoʋ, rise, pick up yoʋr mat, and go to yoʋr house.” 
So the man immediately rose, picked up his mat, and went out in front of them all, so that they were all amazed and began glorifying God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this!” 
Once again Jesus went out by the sea. The entire crowd came to him, and he taught them. 
As he was walking along, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth. Jesus said to him, “Follow me,” so Levi rose and followed him. 
Later, as Jesus was reclining at the table in Levi's house, many tax collectors and sinners reclined with him and his disciples, for there were many who followed him. 
When the scribes and the Pharisees saw Jesus eating with tax collectors and sinners, they said to his disciples, “Why is he eating and drinking with tax collectors and sinners?” 
When Jesus heard this, he said to them, “It is not those who are healthy who have need of a physician, but those who are sick. I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.” 
Now the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees were fasting. So some people came and said to Jesus, “Why do the disciples of John and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but yoʋr disciples do not fast?” 
Jesus said to them, “Can the bridegroom's attendants fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them they cannot fast. 
But the days are coming when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. 
“No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. Otherwise, the garment's new patch pulls away from the old cloth, and a worse tear is made. 
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the new wine bursts the wineskins, and the wine is spilled, and the wineskins are destroyed. But new wine must be put into new wineskins.” 
On the Sabbath Jesus was going through the grainfields, and his disciples began to make their way, plucking heads of grain. 
So the Pharisees said to him, “Behold, why are they doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?” 
He said to them, “Have you never read what David did when he had need and was hungry, he and those who were with him, 
how he entered the house of God, in the time of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except for the priests, and how he also gave it to those who were with him?” 
Then he said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. 
So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.” 
