The Second Letter of Paul to Timothy.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God according to the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus, 
to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. 
I thank God, whom I serve with a clear conscience as my forefathers did, as night and day I constantly remember yoʋ in my prayers. 
Recalling yoʋr tears, I long to see yoʋ so that I may be filled with joy. 
I am reminded of the sincere faith that is in yoʋ, which dwelt first in yoʋr grandmother Lois and in yoʋr mother Eunice, and now, I am sure, dwells in yoʋ also. 
Therefore I remind yoʋ to rekindle the gift of God that is in yoʋ through the laying on of my hands. 
For God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, love, and sound judgment. 
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord or of me his prisoner. Rather, join with me in suffering for the gospel as you rely on the power of God. 
He saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. This grace was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began, 
but has now been revealed through the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. 
For this gospel I was appointed to be a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles. 
That is why I am suffering these things. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard what has been entrusted to me until that day. 
Hold to the pattern of sound teaching that yoʋ have heard from me, in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. 
By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit that has been entrusted to yoʋ. 
Yoʋ know that everyone in Asia has turned away from me, including Phygelus and Hermogenes. 
May the Lord give mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. 
On the contrary, when he arrived in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. 
May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day! Yoʋ know very well all the ways he helped me in Ephesus. 
