Acts.
Chapter 26.
Then Agrippa said to Paul, “Yoʋ have permission to speak for yoʋrself.” So Paul stretched out his hand and began to make his defense: 
“I consider myself fortunate that it is before yoʋ, King Agrippa, that I am about to make my defense today concerning all the things of which I am being accused by the Jews, 
especially since yoʋ are acquainted with all the customs and controversies of the Jews. Therefore I beg yoʋ to listen to me patiently. 
“All the Jews know about my manner of life from my youth up, which was spent from the beginning among my own nation in Jerusalem. 
They have known about me for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived as a Pharisee. 
And now I am standing trial because of my hope in the promise God made to our fathers, 
a promise that our twelve tribes hope to attain as they earnestly serve him night and day. Regarding this hope, King Agrippa, I am being accused by the Jews. 
Why is it deemed unbelievable by you that God raises the dead? 
“Indeed, I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things against the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
And that is just what I did in Jerusalem. I locked up many of the saints in prison by the authority I received from the chief priests, and when they were being put to death, I cast my vote against them. 
I also punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to force them to blaspheme. And being furiously enraged against them, I pursued them even to foreign cities. 
“While engaged in such things, I was on my way to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, 
when at midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who were traveling with me. 
When we had all fallen down to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, ‘Saul, Saul, why are yoʋ persecuting me? It is hard for yoʋ to kick against the goads.’ 
I said, ‘Who are yoʋ, Lord?’ He said, ‘I am Jesus, whom yoʋ are persecuting. 
But rise and stand on yoʋr feet, for I have appeared to yoʋ for this purpose, to appoint yoʋ as a servant and witness to the things yoʋ have seen and to the things in which I will appear to yoʋ. 
I will rescue yoʋ from yoʋr own people and from the Gentiles, to whom I am sending yoʋ 
to open their eyes so that they may turn away from darkness to light, and from the dominion of Satan to God, that they may receive remission of sins and an allotment among those who have been sanctified by faith in me.’ 
“Consequently, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision, 
but first to those in Damascus and then to those in Jerusalem, to all the region of Judea and to the Gentiles, I proclaimed that they should repent and turn to God, doing works consistent with repentance. 
That is why the Jews seized me in the temple courts and were trying to kill me. 
But having obtained help from God, I stand to this day testifying to both small and great, saying nothing except what the Prophets and Moses said would take place: 
that the Christ would suffer and that, as the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light to our people and to the Gentiles.” 
As Paul was saying these things in his own defense, Festus said with a loud voice, “Yoʋ are out of yoʋr mind, Paul. Too much learning is driving yoʋ insane!” 
But Paul said, “I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking words of truth and good sense. 
For the king knows about these things, to whom I am speaking boldly. I am convinced that none of these things has escaped his notice at all, for this has not been done in a corner. 
Do yoʋ believe the Prophets, King Agrippa? I know that yoʋ believe.” 
Agrippa said to Paul, “Do yoʋ think yoʋ can persuade me to become a Christian so quickly?” 
Paul said, “Whether quickly or not, I pray to God that not only yoʋ but also all who are listening to me today would become as I am, except for these chains.” 
After Paul said these things, the king stood up, along with the governor, Bernice, and those who were sitting with them. 
After leaving the room, they began saying to one another, “This man is doing nothing that deserves death or imprisonment.” 
And Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been released if he had not appealed to Caesar.” 
