Matthew.
Chapter 28.
After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to see the tomb along with the other Mary. 
And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled away the stone from the entrance and sat on it. 
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing was as white as snow. 
The guards were so afraid of him that they trembled and became like dead men. 
Then the angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who has been crucified. 
He is not here, for he is risen, just as he said. Come see the place where the Lord lay. 
And now go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead. And behold, he is going ahead of you to Galilee; there you will see him. Listen to what I have told you.” 
So they went out quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. 
As they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them and said, “Greetings!” So they came up, took hold of his feet, and worshiped him. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid; go tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me.” 
As they went, behold, some of the guards went into the city and brought word to the chief priests of all that had taken place. 
After the chief priests had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers 
and said, “Tell people, ‘His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were sleeping.’ 
If this matter is heard before the governor, we will persuade him and keep you free from concern.” 
So they took the money and did as they had been instructed. And this story is still being spread among the Jews today. 
Meanwhile, the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had directed them to go. 
When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. 
Then Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 
Go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 
teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen. 
