Luke.
Chapter 24.
On the first day of the week, at early dawn, the women came to the tomb, bringing the spices they had prepared, and some other women were with them. 
They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, 
but when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
While they were greatly perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling clothes. 
The women were terrified and bowed their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “Why do you seek the living among the dead? 
He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee, 
that the Son of Man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, be crucified, and on the third day rise again.” 
Then they remembered his words. 
When they returned from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven and to all the others. 
It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them, who told these things to the apostles. 
But their words came across to them as nonsense, and they did not believe them. 
Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. When he stooped down to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there by themselves. So he went away, wondering to himself what had happened. 
That same day two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem. 
They were talking with each other about everything that had happened. 
As they were talking and discussing these things, Jesus himself drew near and went along with them, 
but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. 
He said to them, “What are you discussing with each other as you walk along, looking downcast?” 
Then the one whose name was Cleopas answered him, “Are yoʋ the only visitor in Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these last few days?” 
He said to them, “What things?” So they said to him, “The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people, 
and how the chief priests and our rulers handed him over to a sentence of death and crucified him. 
But we had hoped that he was the one who would redeem Israel. And besides all this, today is now the third day since these things happened. 
Moreover, some of our women amazed us. They were at the tomb early this morning, 
and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. 
Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it to be so, just as the women had said, but they did not see him.” 
Then Jesus said to them, “O foolish men, how slow of heart you are to believe all that the prophets have spoken! 
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and enter into his glory?” 
And beginning from Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them the things written about himself in all the Scriptures. 
As they drew near to the village where they were going, Jesus acted as though he were going on farther. 
But they urged him not to do so, saying, “Stay with us, for it is nearly evening, and the day is drawing to a close.” So he went in to stay with them. 
As he was reclining at the table with them, he took the bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them. 
Then their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, but he disappeared from their sight. 
They said to each other, “Were not our hearts burning within us as he spoke to us on the road and explained the Scriptures to us?” 
So they rose that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, where they found the eleven gathered together with their companions, 
saying, “The Lord is risen indeed and has appeared to Simon!” 
Then they began describing what had happened on the road, and how Jesus had been made known to them in the breaking of bread. 
As they were saying these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.” 
But they were startled and terrified, thinking they had seen a spirit. 
Then he said to them, “Why are you troubled, and why are doubts arising in your hearts? 
Look at my hands and my feet and see that it is I myself. Touch me and look at me, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.” 
After saying this, he showed them his hands and his feet. 
And while they were still amazed and in disbelief because of their joy, he said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?” 
So they gave him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb. 
And he took them and ate in their presence. 
Then he said to them, “These are the words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms must be fulfilled.” 
Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures 
and said to them, “Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead on the third day, 
and for repentance and remission of sins to be preached in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. 
You are witnesses of these things. 
And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you, but stay in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high.” 
Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them. 
While he was blessing them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven. 
So they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. 
And they were continually in the temple courts, praising and blessing God. Amen. 
