Matthew.
Chapter 20.
“For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard. 
After agreeing with the workers that they would each receive a denarius for the day, he sent them into his vineyard. 
About the third hour he went out and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. 
He said to them, ‘You go into my vineyard as well, and I will give you whatever is right.’ 
So they went. He went out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour and did likewise. 
About the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle and said to them, ‘Why have you been standing here idle all day?’ 
They said to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You go into my vineyard as well, and you will receive whatever is right.’ 
“When evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, ‘Call the workers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last and going on to the first.’ 
When those who had been hired about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius. 
So when those who had been hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but they also each received a denarius. 
When they received it, they grumbled against the master of the house, 
saying, ‘These last men worked for one hour, and yoʋ have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.’ 
But he replied to one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing yoʋ no wrong. Did yoʋ not agree with me to work for a denarius? 
Take what is yoʋrs and go. I wish to give to this last man just as I gave to yoʋ. 
Or is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is mine? Are yoʋ envious because I am good?’ 
So the last will be first, and the first will be last. For many are called, but few are chosen.” 
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside privately on the way and said to them, 
“Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to the chief priests and scribes. They will condemn him to death 
and hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked, flogged, and crucified. But on the third day he will rise again.” 
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came with her sons to Jesus, and bowing down she asked him for a favor. 
So he said to her, “What do yoʋ want?” She said to him, “Say that these two sons of mine may sit, one on yoʋr right and one on yoʋr left, in yoʋr kingdom.” 
Jesus answered, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink, or to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” The two brothers said to him, “We are able.” 
So he said to them, “You will indeed drink my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right and on my left is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.” 
When the ten heard this, they were indignant with the two brothers. 
So Jesus called them over and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them. 
But it shall not be so among you. Instead, whoever wants to be great among you must be your servant, 
and whoever wants to be first among you must be your slave, 
just as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.” 
As they went out from Jericho, a large crowd followed him. 
And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the road. When they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, “Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!” 
But the crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent. Yet they cried out even more loudly, “Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!” 
So Jesus stopped, called them over, and said, “What do you want me to do for you?” 
They said to him, “Lord, let our eyes be opened.” 
Moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him. 
