Revelation.
Chapter 3.
“To the angel of the church in Sardis write: ‘These are the words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars: I know yoʋr works; yoʋ have a reputation for being alive, but yoʋ are dead. 
Be watchful and strengthen what remains, which yoʋ were about to throw away, for I have not found yoʋr works to be complete in the sight of my God. 
So remember what yoʋ have received and heard; obey it and repent. If yoʋ do not wake up, I will come upon yoʋ like a thief, and yoʋ will certainly not know at what hour I will come upon yoʋ. 
But yoʋ have a few individuals in Sardis who have not defiled their garments. They will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. 
He who overcomes will be clothed in white garments. I will certainly not blot out his name from the book of life, but will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.’ 
“To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: ‘These are the words of him who is holy and true, who has the key of David and opens doors that no one else can open or shut: 
I know yoʋr works. Behold, I have set before yoʋ an open door that no one can shut. I know that yoʋ have little strength, but yoʋ have kept my word and have not denied my name. 
Those of the synagogue of Satan are liars. They declare themselves to be Jews but are not. Behold, I will make them come and bow down at yoʋr feet, and they will know that I love yoʋ. 
Because yoʋ have kept my command to persevere, I will keep yoʋ from the hour of trial that is about to come upon the whole world to test those who dwell on the earth. 
I am coming quickly. Hold fast to what yoʋ have so that no one will take yoʋr crown. 
The one who overcomes I will make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will no longer go out at all. I will write on him the name of my God, the name of the city of my God (the new Jerusalem that comes down out of heaven from my God), and my new name. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.’ 
“To the angel of the church in Laodicea write: ‘These are the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the origin of God's creation: 
I know yoʋr works; yoʋ are neither cold nor hot. If only yoʋ were cold or hot! 
So, because yoʋ are lukewarm, and not hot or cold, I am about to spit yoʋ out of my mouth. 
For yoʋ say, “I am rich; I have become wealthy and need nothing,” but yoʋ do not realize that yoʋ are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked. 
I counsel yoʋ to buy from me gold refined by fire so that yoʋ may be rich, and white garments so that yoʋ may clothe yoʋrself and the shame of yoʋr nakedness may not be revealed, and eye salve to anoint yoʋr eyes so that yoʋ may see. 
Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent. 
Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with me. 
To him who overcomes I will give the right to sit with me on my throne, just as I overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.’ ” 
