John.
Chapter 2.
On the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and Jesus' mother was there. 
Jesus was also invited to the wedding, and so were his disciples. 
When the wine ran out, Jesus' mother said to him, “They have no wine.” 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, what concern is that to yoʋ or to me? My hour has not yet come.” 
But his mother said to the servants, “Do whatever he tells you.” 
Now six stone water jars had been set there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty to thirty gallons. 
Jesus said to the servants, “Fill the jars with water.” So they filled them up to the brim. 
Then he said to them, “Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast.” So they took it, 
and the master of the feast tasted the water, which had been turned into wine. He did not know where it had come from, but the servants who had drawn the water knew. Then the master of the feast called the bridegroom aside 
and said to him, “Everyone serves the good wine first, and then the inferior wine after the guests have drunk freely; but yoʋ have kept the good wine until now.” 
Jesus did this in Cana of Galilee as the first of his signs. He revealed his glory, and his disciples believed in him. 
After this he went down to Capernaum with his mother, his brothers, and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days. 
Now the Passover of the Jews was near, so Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
In the temple courts he found those who were selling oxen, sheep, and doves, and he also found the money changers sitting at their tables. 
So he made a whip of cords and drove them all out of the temple courts, along with their sheep and oxen. He also poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. 
Then he said to those who were selling doves, “Take these things away from here; do not make my Father's house a house of trade.” 
And his disciples remembered that it is written, “Zeal for yoʋr house will consume me.” 
In response the Jews said to him, “What sign can yoʋ show us to prove yoʋr authority to do these things?” 
Jesus answered them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.” 
The Jews said, “It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will yoʋ raise it up in three days?” 
But he was speaking about the temple of his body. 
So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. 
While Jesus was in Jerusalem during the feast of the Passover, many believed in his name because they saw the signs he was doing. 
But Jesus did not entrust himself to them, for he knew all men. 
He did not need anyone to testify about man, for he himself knew what was in man. 
