2 Corinthians.
Chapter 10.
Now I, Paul, myself appeal to you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ—I who am humble when with you face to face, but bold toward you when absent! 
I ask that when I am present I need not show boldness by daring to oppose those who think that we walk according to the flesh. 
For though we walk in the flesh, we do not wage war according to the flesh. 
For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but are powerful in God for tearing down strongholds. 
We tear down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and we take every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. 
We are ready to punish any disobedience, once your obedience is complete. 
Are you looking only at outward appearances? If anyone is confident that he belongs to Christ, he should remind himself that just as he belongs to Christ, so we also belong to Christ. 
For even if I boast somewhat further about our authority (which the Lord has given us for building you up and not for tearing you down), I will not be ashamed. 
For I do not want to seem as though I am trying to frighten you by my letters. 
For, “His letters,” they say, “are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech amounts to nothing.” 
The people who say such things should realize that what we say in our letters when we are absent, we will demonstrate by our actions when we are present. 
For we do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves. When they measure themselves with one another and compare themselves to one another, they do not show good sense. 
We, however, will not boast beyond certain limits, but will confine our boasting to the area of ministry that God has assigned to us, which reaches even as far as you. 
For we are not overextending ourselves, as though we did not reach you; we were the first to come all the way to you with the gospel of Christ. 
We do not go beyond our limits by boasting in the labors of others. On the contrary, our hope is that, as your faith increases, our area of ministry among you will be greatly expanded, 
so that we can preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, without boasting about work already done in someone else's area of ministry. 
But, “Let him who boasts, boast in the Lord.” 
For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. 
