Mark.
Chapter 7.
Now the Pharisees and some of the scribes who had come from Jerusalem were gathered around Jesus. 
When they saw some of his disciples eating bread with hands that were defiled (that is, unwashed), they criticized them. 
(For none of the Pharisees or Jews eat unless they wash their hands properly, holding to the tradition of the elders. 
And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they have washed. There are also many other traditions they observe, such as the washing of cups, pots, copper vessels, and dining couches.) 
Now the Pharisees and the scribes asked Jesus, “Why do yoʋr disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands?” 
He answered them, “Isaiah prophesied rightly about you hypocrites, as it is written, ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. 
They worship me in vain, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’ 
For you have neglected the commandment of God and are holding to the tradition of men, such as various washings of pots and cups. And you do many other similar things such as these.” 
Then he said to them, “You have a fine way of setting aside the commandment of God so that you may keep your tradition! 
For Moses said, ‘Honor yoʋr father and yoʋr mother,’ and, ‘Whoever speaks evil of his father or mother must surely die.’ 
But you teach that it is acceptable for a man to say to his father or mother, ‘Whatever benefit yoʋ might have received from me is Corban’ ” (that is, a gift to God). 
“In this way you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or his mother, 
thus nullifying the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many similar things such as these.” 
Then Jesus called over the entire crowd and said to them, “Listen to me, all of you, and understand: 
There is nothing outside of a person that can defile him by going into him, but the things that come out of a person are what defile him. 
If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.” 
After Jesus had left the crowd and gone into a house, his disciples asked him about the parable. 
He said to them, “So are you also without understanding? Do you not understand that whatever goes into a person from the outside cannot defile him? 
For it does not go into his heart but into his stomach; then it goes out into the latrine, thus purifying all foods.” 
He also said, “It is what comes out of a person that defiles a person. 
For from within, from the hearts of men, come evil thoughts, adultery, fornication, murder, 
theft, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness. 
All these evil things come from within and defile a person.” 
Then Jesus rose from there and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon. He went into a house and did not want anyone to know it, yet he could not escape notice. 
For a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him and came and fell at his feet. 
(This woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by birth.) She asked Jesus to cast the demon out of her daughter. 
But Jesus said to her, “Let the children first be filled, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.” 
She answered him, “Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs.” 
Then he said to her, “Because of this reply, yoʋ may go; the demon has come out of yoʋr daughter.” 
And when she went to her house, she found the demon gone and her daughter lying in bed. 
Then Jesus came back from the region of Tyre and Sidon and went to the Sea of Galilee, within the region of the Decapolis. 
Some people brought to him a deaf man who had a speech impediment, and they begged him to lay his hand on the man. 
So Jesus took him aside privately, away from the crowd. Then he put his fingers into the man's ears, spit, and touched the man's tongue. 
And looking up to heaven, he sighed and said to him, “Ephphatha” (that is, “Be opened”). 
Immediately the man's ears were opened, the impediment of his tongue was removed, and he began speaking clearly. 
Then Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone. But as much as he ordered them not to do so, they proclaimed it all the more. 
And they were completely astonished, saying, “He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak.” 
