Matthew.
Chapter 3.
In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea, 
“Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has drawn near.” 
This is the one who was spoken of by Isaiah the prophet, who said, “The voice of one crying out in the wilderness, ‘Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.’ ” 
Now John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. 
Then Jerusalem was going out to him, and so were all Judea and all the region around the Jordan. 
They were being baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. 
But when John saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, “You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? 
Produce fruit consistent with repentance. 
And do not think that you can say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father,’ for I tell you that God is able from these stones to raise up children to Abraham. 
Even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
“I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. 
His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire.” 
Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him. 
But John tried to prevent him, saying, “I need to be baptized by yoʋ, and do yoʋ come to me?” 
But Jesus answered him, “Permit it for now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then John permitted him. 
After being baptized, Jesus immediately went up from the water. And behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him. 
And behold, a voice from heaven said, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” 
