Luke.
Chapter 21.
Then Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury. 
He also saw a poor widow there putting in two small copper coins. 
So he said, “Truly I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all the others. 
For they have all put in gifts for God out of their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, has put in all that she had to live on.” 
Then, as some were talking about how the temple was adorned with beautiful stones and gifts consecrated to God, Jesus said, 
“As for these things that you see, the days will come in which there will not be left one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.” 
So they asked him, “Teacher, when will these things happen? And what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?” 
He said, “See that you are not led astray. For many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The time has drawn near.’ Do not go after them. 
When you hear of wars and uprisings, do not be terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end will not immediately follow.” 
Then he said to them, “Nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. 
There will be great earthquakes in various places, along with famines and plagues. There will also be terrifying sights and great signs from heaven. 
But before all these things take place, they will arrest you and persecute you. They will deliver you up to synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake. 
This will lead to opportunities for you to bear witness. 
Therefore settle it in your hearts not to prepare your defense in advance. 
For I will give you a mouth to speak and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to refute or resist. 
You will even be betrayed by parents, relatives, friends, and brothers, and they will have some of you put to death. 
You will be hated by all because of my name. 
Yet not a hair of your head will by any means perish. 
You must gain your lives by your patient endurance. 
“When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, know that its desolation is near. 
Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains, those who are in the city must get out, and those who are in the countryside must not enter the city. 
For those will be days of vengeance, to fulfill all that is written. 
Woe to those who are with child and to those who are nursing infants in those days! For there will be great distress in the land and wrath against this people. 
They will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive into all the nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. 
“There will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars, and on the earth there will be distress among the nations as they are perplexed by the roaring sea and the surging waves. 
People will faint from fear and foreboding of what is coming upon the world, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
Then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 
So when these things begin to take place, stand tall and lift up your heads, for your redemption is near.” 
Then he told them a parable: “Consider the fig tree and all the other trees. 
As soon as they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near. 
So also, when you see these things taking place, know that the kingdom of God is near. 
Truly I say to you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all things have taken place. 
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will certainly not pass away. 
“Watch yourselves, lest your hearts be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness, and the cares of this life, and that day come upon you suddenly. 
For it will come like a trap upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth. 
Therefore stay alert at all times, praying that you may be considered worthy to escape everything that will take place, and to stand before the Son of Man.” 
Each day Jesus taught in the temple courts, but at night he would go out and stay at the mount called Olivet. 
And all the people would come to him early in the morning to listen to him in the temple courts. 
