Matthew.
Chapter 8.
When Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. 
And behold, a leper came and bowed down before him, saying, “Lord, if yoʋ are willing, yoʋ can make me clean.” 
So Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, “I am willing; be made clean.” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 
Then Jesus said to him, “See that yoʋ tell no one, but go show yoʋrself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.” 
When Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him and pleaded with him, 
saying, “Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly.” 
Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.” 
But the centurion replied, “Lord, I am not worthy to have yoʋ enter under my roof, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed. 
For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. I say to this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” 
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed and said to those who followed, “Truly I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith. 
I tell you that many will come from east and west, and recline with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob at the banquet table in the kingdom of heaven, 
but the sons of the kingdom will be cast into the outer darkness; in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 
Then Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; it will be done for you just as yoʋ have believed.” And his servant was healed in that hour. 
When Jesus came into Peter's house, he saw Peter's mother-in-law lying in bed with a fever. 
So he touched her hand, and the fever left her. Then she rose and began to serve him. 
When evening came, many who were possessed by demons were brought to him, and he cast out the spirits with a word and healed all who were sick. 
This was to fulfill what had been spoken by Isaiah the prophet: “He took our infirmities and bore our diseases.” 
When Jesus saw the large crowds around him, he gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea. 
Then a scribe came up and said to him, “Teacher, I will follow yoʋ wherever yoʋ go.” 
Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.” 
Then another of his disciples said to him, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.” 
But Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead.” 
Then he got into the boat, and his disciples followed him. 
And behold, a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves. But Jesus was asleep. 
So the disciples came to him and woke him, saying, “Lord, save us! We are perishing!” 
But he said to them, “Why are you afraid, O you of little faith?” Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
And the men were amazed, saying, “What kind of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?” 
When Jesus came to the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gergesenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs. They were so fierce that no one could pass by that way. 
And behold, they cried out, “What do yoʋ have to do with us, Jesus, Son of God? Have yoʋ come here to torment us before the time?” 
Now at a distance from them there was a herd of many pigs feeding. 
So the demons begged Jesus, “If yoʋ cast us out, let us go into the herd of pigs.” 
He said to them, “Go.” So they came out and went into the herd of pigs, and behold, the whole herd of pigs rushed down the steep bank into the sea and died in the water. 
Those who had been feeding the pigs then ran off, went into the city, and reported everything, including what had happened to the demon-possessed men. 
And behold, the whole city went out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they begged him to depart from their region. 
