John.
Chapter 7.
After this Jesus went from place to place in Galilee, for he did not want to travel around in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. 
Now the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles was near. 
So Jesus' brothers said to him, “Leave here and go to Judea so that yoʋr disciples may see the works yoʋ are doing. 
For no one does anything in secret while seeking to be known publicly. If yoʋ are going to do these things, show yoʋrself to the world.” 
(For not even his brothers believed in him.) 
So Jesus said to them, “My time has not yet come, but your time is always at hand. 
The world cannot hate you, but it does hate me because I testify that its works are evil. 
You go up to this feast; I am not yet going up to this feast, for my time has not yet been fulfilled.” 
After saying this to them, he remained in Galilee. 
However, after his brothers had gone up to the feast, Jesus also went up, not openly but in secret. 
Now the Jews were looking for him at the feast, saying, “Where is that man?” 
And there was much murmuring about him among the crowds. Some were saying, “He is a good man.” Others were saying, “No, he is deceiving the crowd.” 
No one, however, was speaking openly about him for fear of the Jews. 
Midway through the feast, Jesus went up to the temple courts and began to teach. 
The Jews were amazed, saying, “How does this man have such learning, since he has never had formal instruction?” 
Jesus answered them, “My teaching is not my own; it comes from him who sent me. 
If anyone wants to do his will, he will know whether my teaching comes from God or whether I am speaking on my own authority. 
He who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of the one who sent him is true, and there is no unrighteousness in him. 
Did not Moses give you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why are you seeking to kill me?” 
The crowd answered, “Yoʋ have a demon! Who is seeking to kill yoʋ?” 
Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you are all amazed. 
Moses gave you circumcision (not that it came from Moses, but from the fathers), and that is why you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. 
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses will not be broken, why are you angry with me because I made a man entirely well on the Sabbath? 
Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with right judgment.” 
Now some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, “Is this not the man whom they are seeking to kill? 
And behold, he is speaking openly, and they are saying nothing to him. Could it be that the rulers indeed know that this is truly the Christ? 
Yet we know where this man is from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he is from.” 
Then Jesus cried out as he taught in the temple courts, “You know me and you know where I am from. Yet I have not come on my own authority, but he who sent me is true. You do not know him, 
but I know him, because I have come from him, and he sent me.” 
So they were seeking to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. 
Still, many from among the crowd believed in him and said, “When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than this man has done?” 
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about him, so the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to arrest him. 
Then Jesus said, “I am with you for a little while longer, and then I am going to him who sent me. 
You will seek me, but you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot come.” 
Then the Jews said to one another, “Where is this man about to go that we will not find him? Is he about to go to the Jews who are scattered among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? 
What does he mean by saying, ‘You will seek me, but you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot come’?” 
On the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. 
Whoever believes in me, just as the Scripture has said, ‘From his innermost being will flow rivers of living water.’ ” 
(He said this about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were going to receive, for the Holy Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified.) 
When they heard this, many from among the crowd were saying, “Surely this man is the Prophet.” 
Others were saying, “He is the Christ.” But others were saying, “No, for the Christ does not come from Galilee, does he? 
Does not the Scripture say that the Christ will come from David's descendants and from Bethlehem, the town where David lived?” 
So a division arose among the crowd because of Jesus. 
Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him. 
Then the officers came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, “Why did you not bring him in?” 
The officers answered, “Never has anyone spoken like this man.” 
The Pharisees answered them, “Have you also been deceived? 
None of the rulers or the Pharisees have believed in him, have they? 
But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed.” 
Then Nicodemus, who had gone to Jesus by night and who was one of the rulers, said, 
“Does our law condemn a man without first giving him a hearing and finding out what he is doing?” 
They answered him, “Are yoʋ also from Galilee? Search and see that no prophet has ever arisen from Galilee.” 
And each went to his own house. 
