Matthew.
Chapter 16.
Now the Pharisees and Sadducees came and tested Jesus, asking him to show them a sign from heaven. 
But he answered them, “When evening comes you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’ 
And in the morning you say, ‘There will be a storm today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ Hypocrites! You know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but you cannot discern the signs of the times? 
An evil and adulterous generation asks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah the prophet.” Then he left them and went away. 
When his disciples reached the other side of the sea, they realized that they had forgotten to bring bread. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Watch out and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” 
So they discussed this among themselves, saying, “He must have said this because we brought no bread.” 
Aware of this, Jesus said to them, “Why are you discussing among yourselves, O you of little faith, the fact that you brought no bread? 
Do you not yet understand? Do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you collected? 
Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you collected? 
How could you not understand that I was not talking about bread when I told you to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?” 
Then they understood that he had not told them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, “Who do people say that I, the Son of Man, am?” 
They said, “Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others say that yoʋ are Jeremiah or one of the prophets.” 
He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” 
Simon Peter answered, “Yoʋ are the Christ, the Son of the living God.” 
And Jesus answered him, “Blessed are yoʋ, Simon Bar-Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to yoʋ, but my Father in heaven. 
And I tell yoʋ that yoʋ are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. 
I will give yoʋ the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever yoʋ bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever yoʋ loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.” 
Then he commanded his disciples to tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ. 
From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and that he must be killed and on the third day be raised up. 
So Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, “God forbid, Lord! This shall certainly not happen to yoʋ.” 
But he turned around and said to Peter, “Get behind me, Satan! Yoʋ are a stumbling block to me, for yoʋ are not thinking about the things of God, but the things of men.” 
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “If anyone wants to come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. 
For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. 
For what does it benefit a person if he gains the whole world but forfeits his soul? Or what can a person give in exchange for his soul? 
For the Son of Man will come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. 
Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will certainly not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.” 
