The Acts of the Apostles.
Chapter 1.
The first account I compiled, O Theophilus, was about all that Jesus began to do and teach 
until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen. 
He presented himself alive to them, after his suffering, by many convincing proofs, appearing to them over the course of forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. 
While he was with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, “Which,” he said, “you heard about from me. 
For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now.” 
So when they had come together, they asked him, “Lord, are yoʋ going to restore the kingdom to Israel at this time?” 
He said to them, “It is not for you to know the times or seasons that the Father has set by his own authority, 
but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.” 
After he said this, he was lifted up as they looked on, and a cloud took him out of their sight. 
As he went, they were gazing up into the sky, when behold, two men in white clothing were standing beside them. 
They said, “Men of Galilee, why are you standing here staring into the sky? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven.” 
Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away. 
After entering the city, they went up to the upper room where they were staying. Those present were Peter, James, John, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James. 
With one accord they were all devoting themselves to prayer and supplication, along with Jesus' brothers and several women, including Mary the mother of Jesus. 
In those days Peter stood up among the disciples (a crowd of about one hundred twenty people who were gathered together). He said, 
“Brothers, it was necessary for this Scripture to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit foretold by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus. 
For he was numbered with us and received his share in this ministry.” 
(Now this man Judas had acquired a field with the wages of unrighteousness, and falling headfirst, his body burst open, and all his intestines gushed out. 
This became known to all who were dwelling in Jerusalem, so that in their language the field was called Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.) 
Peter continued, “For it is written in the Book of Psalms: ‘May his homestead become desolate; let there be no one to dwell in it,’ and, ‘May another take his position as overseer.’ 
Therefore, one of the men who have accompanied us during the entire time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 
beginning from the baptism of John up to the day when Jesus was taken up from us, must become a witness with us of his resurrection.” 
So they put forward two men, Joseph called Barsabas (who was given the name Justus), and Matthias. 
Then they prayed, “Lord, yoʋ know the hearts of all; show us which of these two men yoʋ have chosen 
to receive the share of this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned away to go to his own place.” 
Then they cast lots for them, and the lot fell to Matthias, so he was added to the eleven apostles. 
