Hebrews.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest remains open, let us proceed with fear so that none of you may be found to have fallen short of it. 
For we also have received good news just as they did. But the message they heard did not benefit them, since they were not united by faith with those who listened. 
For we who have believed enter that rest. As for the others, God has said, “As I swore in my wrath, ‘They will not enter my rest!’ ” Now God's works have been finished from the foundation of the world. 
For in one place it speaks about the seventh day as follows: “On the seventh day God rested from all his works.” 
But again, God says in the passage above: “They will not enter my rest!” 
Therefore, since God's rest remains open for some to enter, and those who formerly received good news did not enter because of their disobedience, 
he again designates a certain day, calling it “Today,” as he says through David much later, in the passage already quoted, “Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.” 
For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken later about another day. 
So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. 
For anyone who has entered God's rest has rested from his own works, just as God rested from his. 
Therefore let us make every effort to enter that rest, so that no one will fall into the same pattern of disobedience. 
For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the point of dividing soul from spirit, and joints from marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. 
No creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. 
Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession. 
For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet was without sin. 
Therefore let us draw near to the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. 
