Luke.
Chapter 10.
After this, the Lord appointed seventy others and sent them on ahead, two by two, to every town and place where he himself was about to go. 
He said to them, “The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Therefore ask the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. 
Now go on your way. Behold, I am sending you out like lambs in the midst of wolves. 
Carry no moneybag, no knapsack, and no sandals; and do not greet anyone on the road. 
Whenever you enter a house, first say, ‘May peace be upon this house!’ 
If there is a son of peace there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you. 
Remain in the same house, eating and drinking whatever they provide, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not go from house to house. 
Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you. 
Heal the sick in that city and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.’ 
But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say, 
‘Even the dust that clings to us from your town we wipe off against you. Yet know this: The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.’ 
I tell you, on that day it will be more tolerable for Sodom than for that town. 
“Woe to yoʋ, Chorazin! Woe to yoʋ, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 
But it will be more tolerable at the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. 
And yoʋ, Capernaum, who have been exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades. 
“He who listens to you listens to me; he who rejects you rejects me, and he who rejects me rejects him who sent me.” 
When the seventy returned, they were joyful and said, “Lord, even the demons submit to us in yoʋr name.” 
He said to them, “I watched Satan fall from heaven like lightning. 
Behold, I am giving you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and to overcome all the power of the enemy, and nothing at all will harm you. 
Nevertheless, do not rejoice that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.” 
At that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, “I praise yoʋ, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because yoʋ have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in yoʋr sight.” 
Then he turned to the disciples and said, “All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is except the Father, and no one knows who the Father is except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.” 
Then he turned to the disciples and said privately, “Blessed are the eyes that see what you see! 
For I tell you that many prophets and kings wished to see the things you see but did not see them, and to hear the things you hear but did not hear them.” 
And behold, a lawyer stood up to test Jesus, saying, “Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?” 
Jesus said to him, “What is written in the law? How do yoʋ read it?” 
He answered, “Yoʋ shall love the Lord yoʋr God with all yoʋr heart, with all yoʋr soul, with all yoʋr strength, and with all yoʋr mind; and yoʋ shall love yoʋr neighbor as yoʋrself.” 
Jesus said to him, “Yoʋ have answered correctly; do this and yoʋ will live.” 
But wishing to justify himself, he said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?” 
Jesus replied, “A man was going down to Jericho from Jerusalem and fell among robbers. They stripped him, beat him, and went away, leaving him as he was, half dead. 
Now a priest happened to be going down that road, but when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. 
In the same way, a Levite, when he came to that place and saw him, passed by on the other side. 
But a Samaritan, who was on a journey, came to where the man was, and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion. 
He went over to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them. Then he put him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 
On the next day, when he was departing, he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, ‘Take care of him, and whatever more yoʋ spend I will repay to yoʋ when I return.’ 
Now which of these three do yoʋ think was a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?” 
The lawyer said, “The one who showed him mercy.” So Jesus said to him, “Go and do likewise.” 
As Jesus and his disciples went along, he entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her home. 
She had a sister named Mary, who sat at Jesus' feet and listened to what he was saying. 
But Martha was distracted by the many preparations that had to be made. So she came up to Jesus and said, “Lord, do yoʋ not care that my sister has left me to make all the preparations alone? Tell her then to assist me.” 
But Jesus answered her, “Martha, Martha, yoʋ are anxious and troubled about many things, 
but only one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion, and it will not be taken away from her.” 
