1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 2.
For you yourselves know, brothers, that our visit to you was not in vain. 
On the contrary, even though we had previously suffered and been mistreated in Philippi, as you know, we had boldness in our God to declare to you the gospel of God in the face of strong opposition. 
For our exhortation does not come from error or impurity or with deceit, 
but just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God, who examines our hearts. 
God is our witness that we never came with words of flattery or with a pretext for greed, as you well know. 
Nor did we seek glory from men (neither from you nor from others), though as Christ's apostles we could have asserted our authority. 
Instead, we were gentle among you, like a nursing mother caring for her children. 
We had such strong affection for you that we were pleased to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our own selves, because you had become dear to us. 
For you remember, brothers, our labor and hardship. Working night and day so as not to be a burden on any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God. 
You are witnesses, and so is God, of how devoutly, righteously, and blamelessly we conducted ourselves among you who believe. 
As you know, we dealt with each one of you like a father deals with his own children, exhorting you, encouraging you, 
and testifying that you should walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. 
We also give thanks to God without ceasing because, when you received the word of God that you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as it truly is, the word of God, which is at work in you who believe. 
For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, because you suffered the same things from your own countrymen that they did from the Jews, 
who killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and who also drove us out. They displease God and are hostile to all men 
by hindering us from telling the Gentiles how they can be saved. In this way they are always filling up the measure of their sins, but wrath has come upon them at last. 
As for us, brothers, when we were bereaved of you for a brief hour (being physically absent, but with you in our hearts), we longed with great eagerness to see you face to face. 
Therefore we wanted to come to you—certainly I, Paul, tried to do so again and again—but Satan hindered us. 
For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting in the presence of our Lord Jesus at his coming? Is it not you? 
Yes, you are our glory and joy! 
