Revelation.
Chapter 2.
“To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: ‘These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and who walks among the seven golden lampstands: 
I know yoʋr works, yoʋr labor, and yoʋr endurance. I know that yoʋ cannot tolerate those who are evil, and that yoʋ have tested those who declare themselves to be apostles but are not, and have found them to be false. 
Yoʋ have persevered and endured hardships for the sake of my name, and have not grown weary. 
But I have this against yoʋ: Yoʋ have left yoʋr first love. 
Therefore, remember where yoʋ have fallen from; repent and do the works yoʋ did at first. Otherwise, I will come to yoʋ quickly and remove yoʋr lampstand from its place, unless yoʋ repent. 
Yet yoʋ do have this: Yoʋ hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give the right to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of my God.’ 
“To the angel of the church in Smyrna write: ‘These are the words of the first and the last, who was dead and came to life: 
I know yoʋr works, yoʋr tribulation, and yoʋr poverty—yet yoʋ are rich! I know the slander of those who declare themselves to be Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 
Do not be afraid of what yoʋ are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison so that you may be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful, even to the point of death, and I will give yoʋ the crown of life. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. He who overcomes will certainly not be harmed by the second death.’ 
“To the angel of the church in Pergamum write: ‘These are the words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword: 
I know yoʋr works and where yoʋ dwell, where Satan's throne is. Yet yoʋ hold fast to my name, and yoʋ did not deny my faith in the days when Antipas was my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells. 
But I have a few things against yoʋ: Yoʋ have some there who hold to the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel and to eat food sacrificed to idols and commit fornication. 
In the same way, yoʋ also have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans. 
Therefore repent. Otherwise, I will come to yoʋ quickly and make war against them with the sword of my mouth. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give some of the hidden manna. I will also give him a white stone, and on the stone will be written a new name that no one knows except the one who receives it.’ 
“To the angel of the church in Thyatira write: ‘These are the words of the Son of God, whose eyes are like a flame of fire and whose feet are like burnished bronze: 
I know yoʋr works, yoʋr love and faith, yoʋr service and endurance, and that yoʋr latter works are greater than the ones yoʋ did at first. 
But I have this against yoʋ: Yoʋ tolerate yoʋr wife Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess while teaching and seducing my servants to commit fornication and eat food sacrificed to idols. 
I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her fornication. 
Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent from her works. 
I will strike her children dead. Then all the churches will know that I am he who searches minds and hearts, and I will give to each of you according to your works. 
But to the rest of you who are in Thyatira, who do not hold to this teaching and have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan—to you I say: I place no further burden upon you. 
Only hold fast to what you have until I come. 
To him who overcomes and keeps my works to the end, I will give authority over the nations, 
and he will rule them with a rod of iron; like earthen vessels they will be shattered, just as I have received authority from my Father. 
I will also give him the morning star. 
He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.’ 
