Acts.
Chapter 5.
Now a man named Ananias, along with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property 
and kept back some of the proceeds, with his wife also being aware of it. He brought a portion of the proceeds and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
But Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled yoʋr heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep back some of the proceeds of the plot of land? 
While it remained unsold, did it not remain yoʋrs? And once it was sold, was it not under yoʋr control? How is it that yoʋ have put this thing in yoʋr heart? Yoʋ have not lied to men but to God.” 
When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and breathed his last breath. And great fear came upon all who heard about it. 
Then the young men rose, wrapped up his body, carried him out, and buried him. 
About three hours later, his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. 
Peter said to her, “Tell me if you sold the plot of land for such and such a price.” She said, “Yes, for such a price.” 
Peter said to her, “Why is it that you have agreed to put the Spirit of the Lord to the test? Behold, the feet of those who buried yoʋr husband are at the door, and they will carry yoʋ out.” 
At once she fell down at his feet and breathed her last breath. When the young men came in, they found her dead, so they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. 
And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard these things. 
Now many signs and wonders were taking place among the people by the hands of the apostles, and all the believers were together with one accord in Solomon's portico. 
No one else dared to join them, but the people held them in high regard. 
Yet more and more people believed in the Lord and were added to their number, a multitude of both men and women. 
As a result, people carried the sick out into the streets and laid them on beds and mats, so that when Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on one of them. 
A multitude from the towns all around Jerusalem also gathered together, bringing the sick and those harassed by unclean spirits, and they were all healed. 
Then the high priest rose up, along with all who were with him (that is, the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with jealousy. 
So they arrested the apostles and put them in a public jail. 
But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, brought them out, and said, 
“Go stand in the temple courts and tell the people everything about this new life.” 
When they heard this, they entered the temple courts at dawn and began teaching. When the high priest came, along with those who were with him, they called together the Sanhedrin—that is, the entire eldership of the sons of Israel—and sent officers to the prison to have the apostles brought before them. 
But when the officers arrived, they did not find them in the prison. So they returned and reported, 
“We found the prison locked up in complete security and the guards standing in front of the doors, but when we opened the doors, we found no one inside.” 
When the high priest, the captain of the temple guard, and the chief priests heard this report, they were greatly perplexed by it, wondering what might come of this. 
Then someone came and told them, “Behold, the men you put in prison are standing in the temple courts teaching the people!” 
So the captain went with the officers and brought the apostles without the use of force, for they were afraid the people might stone them. 
After bringing the apostles in, they had them stand before the Sanhedrin, and the high priest asked them, 
“Did we not strictly command you not to teach in this name? Yet behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you are determined to bring the blood of this man upon us.” 
But Peter and the apostles answered, “We must obey God rather than men. 
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging him on a cross. 
God exalted him to his right hand as Leader and Savior to grant repentance to Israel and remission of sins. 
Concerning these things we are his witnesses, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him.” 
When they heard this, they were furious and resolved to put them to death, 
but a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law who was held in honor by all the people, stood up in the Sanhedrin and gave orders to put the apostles outside for a little while. 
Then he said to the Sanhedrin, “Men of Israel, give careful consideration to what you are about to do to these men. 
For before these days Theudas rose up, declaring himself to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, responded to the call to join him. He was put to death, and all his followers were scattered and came to nothing. 
After this man, Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away many people after him. He also perished, and all his followers were scattered. 
So I say to you now, keep away from these men and leave them alone, for if this plan or this undertaking is of men, it will be stopped; 
but if it is of God, you cannot put a stop to it. You will only find yourselves fighting against God.” 
They were persuaded by him, and after calling in the apostles, they beat them, commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and released them. 
So the apostles went out from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer dishonor for the name of Jesus. 
And every day, in the temple courts and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and preaching the good news that Jesus is the Christ. 
