John.
Chapter 9.
As Jesus walked along, he saw a man who had been blind from birth. 
His disciples asked him, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he should be born blind?” 
Jesus answered, “Neither did this man sin nor his parents, but it happened so that the works of God might be revealed in him. 
I must do the works of him who sent me while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work. 
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.” 
After saying this, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he rubbed the mud on the blind man's eyes 
and said to him, “Go wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means “Sent”). So he went and washed, and came away seeing. 
Then his neighbors and those who had previously seen that he was blind were saying, “Is this not the man who used to sit and beg?” 
Others were saying, “It is he.” Still others were saying, “He is like him.” But he kept saying, “I am he.” 
So they said to him, “How were yoʋr eyes opened?” 
He answered, “A man named Jesus made mud, rubbed it on my eyes, and said to me, ‘Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.’ So I went and washed, and received my sight.” 
They said to him, “Where is this man?” He said, “I do not know.” 
So they brought the man who was once blind to the Pharisees. 
(Now it was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened the man's eyes.) 
The Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight, and he said to them, “He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and now I see.” 
Then some of the Pharisees were saying, “This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath.” But others were saying, “How can a sinful man do such signs?” And a division arose among them. 
So they said to the blind man again, “What do yoʋ say about him, since he opened yoʋr eyes?” The man said, “He is a prophet.” 
Now the Jews did not believe that the man had been blind and had received his sight until they called in his parents. 
They asked them, “Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?” 
His parents answered them, “We know that this is our son and that he was born blind. 
But how he can now see or who opened his eyes, we do not know. He is of age; ask him. He will speak for himself.” 
(His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess that Jesus was the Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue. 
That is why his parents said, “He is of age; ask him.”) 
So for a second time they called in the man who had been blind and said to him, “Give glory to God! We know that this man is a sinner.” 
He answered, “Whether he is a sinner or not, I do not know; one thing I know, that though I was blind, now I see.” 
Again they said to him, “What did he do to yoʋ? How did he open yoʋr eyes?” 
He answered them, “I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples?” 
Then they reviled him and said, “Yoʋ are a disciple of that man, but we are disciples of Moses. 
We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he is from.” 
The man answered them, “Why, this is an amazing thing, that you do not know where he is from, and yet he opened my eyes! 
We know that God does not listen to sinners, but he does listen to anyone who is devout and does his will. 
Never before has anyone heard of someone opening the eyes of a man born blind. 
If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.” 
They answered him, “Yoʋ were born entirely in sin, and yet yoʋ are trying to teach us?” And they threw him out. 
Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, so he found the man and said to him, “Do yoʋ believe in the Son of God?” 
He answered, “Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?” 
Jesus said to him, “Yoʋ have seen him, and the one speaking with yoʋ is he.” 
The man said, “I believe, Lord.” And he worshiped him. 
Then Jesus said, “For judgment I have come into this world, so that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind.” 
Some of the Pharisees who were with him heard this and said to him, “We are not also blind, are we?” 
Jesus said to them, “If you were blind, you would have no sin, but now you say, ‘We see.’ Therefore your sin remains. 
