Matthew.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil. 
After fasting for forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. 
Then the tempter came up to him and said, “If yoʋ are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread.” 
But Jesus answered, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.’ ” 
Then the devil took him to the holy city, set him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
and said to him, “If yoʋ are the Son of God, throw yoʋrself down, for it is written, ‘He will command his angels concerning yoʋ,’ and, ‘In their hands they will lift yoʋ up, so that yoʋ do not strike yoʋr foot against a stone.’ ” 
Jesus said to him, “Again it is written, ‘Yoʋ shall not put the Lord yoʋr God to the test.’ ” 
Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. 
And he said to him, “All these things I will give yoʋ, if yoʋ will fall down and worship me.” 
Then Jesus said to him, “Get behind me, Satan! For it is written, ‘Yoʋ shall worship the Lord yoʋr God, and him only shall yoʋ serve.’ ” 
Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him. 
Now when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he withdrew to Galilee. 
And leaving Nazareth, he went and dwelt at Capernaum by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali, 
so that what had been spoken by Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled: 
“Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, 
the people sitting in darkness have seen a great light, and on those sitting in the region and shadow of death light has dawned.” 
From that time Jesus began to preach, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has drawn near.” 
As Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (who is called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. 
Jesus said to them, “Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.” 
So they immediately left their nets and followed him. 
Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. 
So they immediately left the boat and their father and followed him. 
Then Jesus went throughout all of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people. 
So the news about him went out into all of Syria, and the people brought to him all who were sick with various diseases, those suffering severe pain, the demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics. And he healed them. 
And large crowds followed him from Galilee, the Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and from beyond the Jordan. 
