1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
Now concerning the times and seasons, brothers, you have no need for anything to be written to you. 
For you yourselves know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. 
When people are saying, “Peace and safety,” destruction will come upon them suddenly, like labor pains upon a woman with child, and they will certainly not escape. 
But you, brothers, are not in darkness so that this day should catch you like a thief. 
You are all sons of light and sons of the day; we are not of the night or of the darkness. 
So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us be watchful and sober. 
For those who sleep, sleep at night; and those who get drunk, get drunk at night. 
But since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and the hope of salvation as a helmet. 
For God has not appointed us to suffer wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we may live together with him. 
Therefore encourage one another and build each other up, even as you are doing. 
Now we ask you, brothers, to recognize those who labor among you, who lead you in the Lord and admonish you, 
and to regard them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace with one another. 
And we urge you, brothers, to admonish those who are idle, encourage the fainthearted, support the weak, and be patient toward all. 
See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always strive to do what is good for each other and for everyone else. 
Rejoice always, 
pray without ceasing, 
in everything give thanks; for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. 
Do not quench the Spirit. 
Do not despise prophecies, 
but test everything; hold fast to what is good. 
Avoid every form of evil. 
Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your entire spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it. 
Brothers, pray for us. 
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
I charge you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the holy brothers. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
