Acts.
Chapter 17.
When Paul and his companions had traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. 
As was his custom, Paul went in to them, and for three Sabbaths he reasoned with them from the Scriptures, 
explaining and presenting evidence that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead, saying, “This Jesus whom I am proclaiming to you is the Christ.” 
Some of the Jews were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a large number of the devout Greeks and quite a few prominent women. 
But the Jews who refused to believe rounded up some evil men from the marketplace and formed a mob, setting the city in an uproar. They attacked Jason's house, seeking to bring Paul and Silas out to the public assembly. 
But when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some other brothers to the city officials, shouting, “These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also, 
and Jason has welcomed them. They all act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus.” 
And they stirred up the crowd and the city officials who heard these things. 
But when the city officials had received a security bond from Jason and the others, they released them. 
As soon as it was night the brothers sent Paul and Silas to Berea. When they arrived, they went to the synagogue of the Jews. 
Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and they received the word with great eagerness, examining the Scriptures every day to see if what Paul said was true. 
As a result, many of them believed, as did quite a few of the Greek women of high standing and the men. 
But when the Jews of Thessalonica found out that Paul was proclaiming the word of God in Berea also, they went there as well, agitating the crowds. 
Then the brothers immediately sent Paul away, as though he were going by sea, but Silas and Timothy remained in Berea. 
Those who escorted Paul brought him as far as Athens, and after they had received an order for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed. 
While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him when he saw that the city was full of idols. 
So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout Greeks, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there. 
Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. Some said, “What is this babbler trying to say?” But others said, “He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign deities.” (They said this because he was preaching the good news about Jesus and the resurrection.) 
So they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, “May we know what this new teaching is that yoʋ are presenting? 
For yoʋ are bringing some strange things to our ears, and we would like to know what they mean.” 
(Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who dwelt there would spend their time in nothing else but talking about and listening to whatever the newest idea might be.) 
Paul then stood before the Areopagus and said, “Men of Athens, I see just how religious you are in every way. 
For as I was going around and closely observing yoʋr objects of worship, I even found an altar that had been inscribed: ‘To an unknown god.’ I proclaim to you therefore the one whom you worship in ignorance. 
The God who made the world and everything in it, who is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made by hands, 
neither is he served by the hands of men, as though he needed anything. Rather, he himself continually gives life and breath to all mankind. 
From one bloodline he created every nation of mankind to dwell on the entire face of the earth. He determined their appointed times and the boundaries of where they would dwell, 
so that they might seek the Lord and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him, though he is not far from any one of us. 
For in him we live and move and have our being, as even some of your own poets have said: ‘For we also are his offspring.’ 
Being then the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold, silver, or stone, an image formed by the skill and imagination of man. 
Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God now commands all people everywhere to repent, 
because he has set a day on which he is going to judge the world in righteousness by a man he has appointed. He has provided assurance of this to everyone by raising this man from the dead.” 
Now when they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some began to scoff, but others said, “We wish to hear about this from yoʋ again.” 
So Paul departed from them, 
but some of the people joined him and believed, among whom were Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them. 
