Galatians.
Chapter 4.
Now I say that as long as the heir is a child, he differs in no way from a slave, though he is the master of all. 
But he is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by his father. 
In the same way also, when we were children, we were enslaved to the elements of the world. 
But when the fullness of time came, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, 
to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. 
And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying out, “Abba! Father!” 
So yoʋ are no longer a slave, but a son. And if yoʋ are a son, yoʋ are also an heir of God through Christ. 
At that time, however, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to beings that by nature are not gods. 
But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how is it that you are turning back again to the weak and worthless elements? Do you wish to be enslaved to them once more? 
You observe days, months, seasons, and years! 
I am afraid for you, lest somehow I have labored for you in vain. 
I plead with you, brothers: Become as I am, because I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong. 
But you know that it was because of a physical infirmity that I preached the gospel to you the first time. 
And you did not despise or reject me even though my physical condition was a trial for me. On the contrary, you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus. 
What then has become of that sense of blessing you had? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have plucked out your own eyes and given them to me. 
Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth? 
Those false teachers are not zealous for you in a good way, but rather they wish to shut you out so that you will be zealous for them. 
Now it is good to be zealous for a good purpose, and to be so at all times and not just when I am with you. 
My little children, for whom I am again suffering labor pains until Christ is formed in you, 
how I wish that I could be with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you! 
Tell me, you who wish to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? 
For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and one by the free woman. 
But the son of the slave woman was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through the promise. 
This can be explained allegorically, for these women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery; this is Hagar. 
For Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present Jerusalem; she is in slavery with her children. 
But the Jerusalem that is above is the free woman; she is the mother of us all. 
For it is written, “Rejoice, O barren woman, who has never given birth; break forth and shout, yoʋ who have never been in labor! For many are the children of the desolate woman, more than those of the woman who has a husband.” 
Now we, brothers, like Isaac, are children of the promise. 
But just as at that time the child who was born according to the flesh persecuted the child who was born according to the Spirit, so it is now also. 
But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman.” 
So, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free woman. 
