John.
Chapter 12.
Six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had died and whom Jesus had raised from the dead. 
They prepared a supper for Jesus there. Martha was serving, and Lazarus was one of the people reclining at the table with him. 
Then Mary took a pound of expensive ointment made of pure nard, anointed Jesus' feet, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment. 
Then one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, who was about to betray him, said, 
“Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and the money given to the poor?” 
(He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief; he was the keeper of the moneybag and would pilfer what was put into it.) 
So Jesus said, “Leave her alone; she has kept this ointment for the day of my burial. 
For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me.” 
Meanwhile a large crowd of the Jews found out that Jesus was there, so they came not only because of Jesus but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. 
So the chief priests plotted to kill Lazarus also, 
because on account of him many of the Jews were going over to Jesus and believing in him. 
On the next day, when a large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
they took palm branches and went out to meet him. They were crying out, “Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel!” 
Finding a young donkey, Jesus sat on it, just as it is written, 
“Do not be afraid, daughter of Zion. Behold, yoʋr king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt.” 
(His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that these things were written about him, and that these things had been done to him.) 
Now the crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead was testifying about it. 
That is why a crowd went out to meet him, because they heard he had done this sign. 
So the Pharisees said to one another, “You see that you are achieving nothing. Behold, the world has gone after him.” 
Now there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast. 
They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and requested of him, “Sir, we would like to see Jesus.” 
Philip went and told Andrew, and in turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus. 
Jesus replied to them, “The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit. 
Whoever loves his life will lose it, but whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. 
If anyone wants to serve me, he must follow me; and where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.” 
“My soul is now troubled. And what shall I say? ‘Father, save me from this hour’? No, it is for this reason that I have come to this hour. 
Father, glorify yoʋr name.” Then a voice came from heaven: “I have glorified it, and will glorify it again.” 
When the crowd standing there heard the voice, they said it was thunder. Others said, “An angel has spoken to him.” 
Jesus responded, “This voice has come not for my sake, but for your sake. 
Now is the judgment of this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. 
And when I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself.” 
(He said this to indicate the kind of death he was going to die.) 
The crowd responded to him, “We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever, so how can yoʋ say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this ‘Son of Man’?” 
Jesus said to them, “The light is with you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness may not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. 
While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light.” After saying these things, Jesus went away and was hidden from them. 
Although he had done so many signs in their presence, they did not believe in him. 
This was to fulfill what had been spoken by Isaiah the prophet: “Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?” 
For this reason they could not believe, for again Isaiah said, 
“He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn back, and I would heal them.” 
Isaiah said these things when he saw the Lord's glory and spoke about him. 
Nevertheless, many even among the rulers believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they would not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. 
For they loved the glory that comes from men more than the glory that comes from God. 
Then Jesus cried out and said, “Whoever believes in me, believes not in me but in him who sent me. 
And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. 
I have come into the world as light, so that no one who believes in me should remain in darkness. 
If anyone hears my words and does not believe, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. 
He who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge; the word I have spoken will judge him on the last day. 
For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me gave me a commandment as to what I should say and what I should speak. 
And I know that his commandment leads to eternal life. What I speak, therefore, I speak just as the Father has told me.” 
