Revelation.
Chapter 5.
Then I saw in the right hand of him who sits on the throne a scroll written on the inside and outside, sealed with seven seals. 
And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?” 
But no one in heaven above or on earth or under the earth could open the scroll or look into it. 
So I began to weep loudly because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look into it. 
Then one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered; he is the one who can open the scroll and its seven seals.” 
Then I saw a Lamb that looked like it had been slain; he was standing among the elders in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures. He had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. 
He went and took the scroll out of the right hand of him who was sitting on the throne. 
When he took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each of them had a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. 
And they sang a new song: “Worthy are yoʋ to take the scroll and open its seals, for yoʋ were slain, and by yoʋr blood yoʋ redeemed us for God out of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. 
Yoʋ have made them kings and priests to our God, and they will reign on the earth.” 
Then I looked, and I heard something like the voice of many angels coming from around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders. Their number was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, 
and they were saying with a loud voice, “Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches, wisdom and strength, honor, glory, and blessing!” 
Then I heard every creature in heaven, on earth, under the earth, in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, “To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, be blessing and honor, glory and power forever and ever! Amen.” 
And I heard the four living creatures saying, “Amen.” And the elders fell down and worshiped. 
