Acts.
Chapter 19.
While Apollos was in Corinth, Paul went through the interior regions and came to Ephesus, where he came across some disciples. 
He said to them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?” They said to him, “No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.” 
So Paul said to them, “Into what then were you baptized?” They said, “Into John's baptism.” 
Then Paul said, “John baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, in Christ Jesus.” 
On hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying. 
There were about twelve men in all. 
Over a period of three months Paul would go into the synagogue and speak boldly, reasoning and persuading the people about the kingdom of God. 
But some became hardened and refused to believe, speaking evil of the Way in front of the congregation. So Paul left them and took the disciples with him, reasoning daily in the lecture hall of a man named Tyrannus. 
This continued for two years, so that all who dwelt in Asia, both Jews and Greeks, heard the word of the Lord Jesus. 
Now God was performing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul, 
so that even cloths or aprons that had touched his skin were placed upon the sick, and their diseases left them, and evil spirits came out of them. 
Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists attempted to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits. They would say, “We adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.” 
Seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish high priest, were doing this. 
But one day an evil spirit responded, “I know Jesus, and I am acquainted with Paul, but who are you?” 
Then the man who had the evil spirit jumped on them, overpowered them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled from the house naked and wounded. 
When this became known to all the Jews and Greeks who dwelt in Ephesus, fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was being magnified. 
Many who had become believers came forward, confessing and disclosing their practices, 
while many who practiced magical arts brought their books together and began burning them in front of everyone. When the value of the books was added up, the total came to fifty thousand silver coins. 
In this way the word of the Lord was increasing and prevailing mightily. 
After these things had taken place, Paul resolved in his spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia and go on to Jerusalem, saying, “After I have been there, I must see Rome also.” 
So he sent two of his helpers, Timothy and Erastus, to Macedonia, while he himself stayed in Asia for a period of time. 
About that time a great disturbance arose concerning the Way. 
For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought in a great deal of business to the craftsmen. 
He gathered these men together, along with those who worked in similar trades, and said, “Men, you know that our wealth is derived from this business. 
You also see and hear that, not only in Ephesus, but in nearly all of Asia, this man Paul has persuaded and drawn away a considerable crowd, saying that gods made by hands are not gods at all. 
Not only is there the danger that this trade of ours might come into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis might be regarded as nothing, and that her magnificence might be brought down, whom all Asia and the world worship.” 
When they heard this, they were filled with rage and began crying out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” 
So the whole city was filled with confusion, and they rushed with one accord into the amphitheater, seizing Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians who were Paul's traveling companions. 
Although Paul wanted to go into the public assembly, the disciples would not let him. 
Even some of the provincial officials of Asia, who were friends of Paul, sent word to him, begging him not to venture into the amphitheater. 
Now some were shouting one thing, and some were shouting another, for the assembly was confused, and the majority did not know for what reason they had come together. 
So the Jews put forward Alexander, who was then brought before the crowd. Alexander motioned with his hand, wishing to make a defense to the public assembly. 
But when they realized he was a Jew, a single outcry arose from them all as they shouted for about two hours, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” 
When the city clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, “Men of Ephesus, who is there that does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the temple keeper of the great goddess Artemis and of the image that fell down from Zeus? 
Therefore, since these facts are undeniable, you must keep calm and not do anything rash. 
For you have brought these men here who are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of your goddess. 
So if Demetrius and his fellow craftsmen have a complaint against anyone, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls; let them bring charges against one another. 
But if you seek anything concerning other matters, it must be settled in the lawful assembly. 
For we are in danger of being charged with rioting in connection with today's events, since there is no reason we can give to account for this disorderly gathering.” 
And after saying this, he dismissed the assembly. 
