Acts.
Chapter 10.
Now there was a man in Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian cohort. 
He was a devout man who feared God along with his entire household; he gave generously to those in need and always prayed to God. 
About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God, who came in and said to him, “Cornelius!” 
Staring at him intently, Cornelius was afraid and said, “What is it, Lord?” The angel said to him, “Yoʋr prayers and charitable acts have ascended as a memorial offering before God. 
Now send men to Joppa and have them bring back Simon, who is called Peter. 
He is staying with a tanner named Simon, whose house is by the sea.” 
When the angel who spoke to him went away, Cornelius called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among his attendants. 
After explaining everything to them, he sent them to Joppa. 
On the next day, as the men were traveling along and approaching the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray at about the sixth hour. 
He became hungry and wanted to eat, and as they were preparing a meal, a trance fell upon him. 
He saw heaven opened and an object like a large sheet coming down to him. It was tied at its four corners and was being lowered to the earth. 
In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, as well as wild beasts, reptiles, and birds of the sky. 
Then a voice came to him: “Rise, Peter, kill and eat.” 
But Peter said, “Surely not, Lord! For I have never eaten anything that is defiled or unclean.” 
The voice came to him again a second time: “Do not regard as defiled what God has made clean.” 
This happened three times, and then the object was taken up again into heaven. 
While Peter was greatly perplexed, pondering within himself what the vision he had seen might mean, behold, the men sent by Cornelius had asked for Simon's house and were standing at the gate. 
They called out and asked if Simon, who was called Peter, was staying there. 
As Peter continued pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Behold, some men are looking for yoʋ. 
Now get up, go downstairs, and go with them without any misgivings, for I have sent them.” 
So Peter went down to the men and said, “Behold, I am the one you are looking for. For what reason have you come?” 
They said, “Cornelius, a centurion, a righteous and God-fearing man, who is well spoken of by the entire Jewish nation, was directed by a holy angel to send for yoʋ to come to his house and to hear a message from yoʋ.” 
So Peter invited them in and put them up for the night. The next day Peter went with them, and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him. 
The following day they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was expecting them and had called together his relatives and close friends. 
When Peter entered the house, Cornelius met him, fell at his feet, and worshiped him. 
But Peter raised him up, saying, “Stand up; I too am just a man.” 
As Peter talked with him, he went in and found many people gathered together. 
Peter said to them, “You know that it is forbidden for a Jewish man to keep company with or associate with a foreigner, but God has shown me that I should call no one defiled or unclean. 
That is why I came without objection when I was sent for. I ask then, what is the reason you have sent for me?” 
Cornelius said, “Four days ago I was fasting until this hour. At the ninth hour I was praying in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing. 
The man said, ‘Cornelius, yoʋr prayer has been heard, and yoʋr charitable acts have been remembered before God. 
Therefore send to Joppa and ask for Simon, who is called Peter. He is staying by the sea in the house of a tanner named Simon. When he arrives, he will speak to yoʋ.’ 
So I sent for yoʋ at once, and yoʋ have done well by coming. Now then, we are all here in the presence of God to hear all that yoʋ have been commanded by God.” 
Then Peter opened his mouth and said, “Now I truly understand that God shows no partiality, 
but in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. 
You yourselves know the message he sent to the sons of Israel, preaching the good news of peace through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all, 
the message that spread throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John preached: 
how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power, who then went around doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, because God was with him. 
We are witnesses of everything he did both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They put him to death by hanging him on a cross, 
but God raised him up on the third day and allowed him to be seen, 
not by all the people, but by us, the witnesses who had been chosen beforehand by God, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. 
He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he is the one who has been appointed by God as judge of the living and the dead. 
All the prophets testify about him that everyone who believes in him receives remission of sins through his name.” 
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all who were listening to the message. 
All the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were astonished, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was being poured out even on the Gentiles. 
For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter responded, 
“Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have?” 
So he gave orders to have them baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay on for a few days. 
