John.
Chapter 21.
After this Jesus again manifested himself to the disciples, by the Sea of Tiberias. He manifested himself in this way. 
Simon Peter, Thomas (called Didymus), Nathanael (from Cana of Galilee), the sons of Zebedee, and two of Jesus' other disciples were together. 
Simon Peter said to them, “I am going fishing.” They said to him, “We will go with yoʋ.” So they immediately went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. 
When daybreak came, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not know it was Jesus. 
Jesus said to them, “Children, have you caught any fish to eat?” They answered him, “No.” 
He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” So they cast it and were unable to draw it in because of the large number of fish. 
Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment (for he had taken it off) and plunged into the sea. 
But the other disciples came in the small boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from shore, only about a hundred yards away. 
When they had gone ashore, they saw a charcoal fire there with a fish lying on it, and bread. 
Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish that you have just now caught.” 
So Simon Peter went aboard and drew the net ashore, full of large fish, one hundred fifty-three of them. Although there were so many, the net had not torn. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Come eat breakfast.” Now none of the disciples dared to ask him, “Who are yoʋ?” because they knew it was the Lord. 
Then Jesus came, took the bread, and gave it to them. He did likewise with the fish. 
This was now the third time that Jesus had been revealed to his disciples after he had been raised from the dead. 
When they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do yoʋ love me more than these?” Peter said to him, “Yes, Lord, yoʋ know that I care for yoʋ.” Jesus said to him, “Feed my lambs.” 
Jesus said to him a second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do yoʋ love me?” Peter said to him, “Yes, Lord, yoʋ know that I care for yoʋ.” Jesus said to him, “Tend my sheep.” 
Then Jesus said to him the third time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do yoʋ care for me?” Peter was grieved that Jesus said to him the third time, “Do yoʋ care for me?” And he said to him, “Lord, yoʋ know everything; yoʋ know that I care for yoʋ.” Jesus said to him, “Feed my sheep. 
Truly, truly, I say to yoʋ, when yoʋ were younger, yoʋ would dress yoʋrself and walk wherever yoʋ wanted to go; but when yoʋ grow old, yoʋ will stretch out yoʋr hands, and another will dress yoʋ and bring yoʋ where yoʋ do not want to go.” 
(He said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God.) After saying this, he said to Peter, “Follow me.” 
Then Peter turned around and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them (the one who had leaned back on Jesus' chest at the supper and said, “Lord, who is it that is going to betray yoʋ?”) 
When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, “Lord, what about him?” 
Jesus said to him, “If I wish for him to remain until I come, what is that to yoʋ? Yoʋ follow me!” 
So the rumor spread among the brothers that this disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not tell him that he would not die; he only said, “If I wish for him to remain until I come, what is that to yoʋ?” 
This is the disciple who is testifying about these things and who has written these things, and we know that his testimony is true. 
There are also many other things that Jesus did. If every one of them were to be written down, I suppose that not even the world itself would have room for the books that would be written. Amen. 
