Ephesians.
Chapter 3.
For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles, bow my knees in prayer. 
Surely you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, 
how God made the mystery known to me by revelation, just as I have written above in a few words. 
When you read what I have written, you can understand my insight into the mystery of Christ, 
which in previous generations was not made known to the sons of men as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to his holy apostles and prophets. 
This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of God's promise in Christ through the gospel. 
I became a servant of this gospel according to the gift of God's grace that was given to me by the working of his power. 
This grace was given to me, the very least of all the saints, to preach among the Gentiles the good news of the boundless riches of Christ, 
and to bring to light for everyone the plan of the mystery that has been hidden for ages in God, who created all things through Jesus Christ. 
The purpose of bringing this to light is that, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms, 
according to the eternal purpose that God has carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
Because of Christ and our faith in him, we have boldness and confident access to God. 
Therefore I ask you not to lose heart at my tribulations on your behalf, which will bring you glory. 
For this reason I bow my knees in prayer before the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. 
I pray that, according to the riches of his glory, he would grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, 
so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, 
as you are being rooted and grounded in love. I pray that you may be able to fully comprehend, together with all the saints, how wide and long and deep and high 
is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, so that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. 
Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we could ask or imagine, according to the power at work within us— 
to him be glory in the church in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. 
