Matthew.
Chapter 14.
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report about Jesus 
and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist; he has been raised from the dead, and that is why these mighty powers are at work in him.” 
For Herod had arrested John, bound him, and put him in prison on account of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. 
For John had been saying to him, “It is not lawful for yoʋ to have her.” 
Although Herod wanted to kill John, he was afraid of the crowd, because they regarded John as a prophet. 
But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before the guests and pleased Herod. 
So he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. 
Prompted by her mother, she said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” 
The king was grieved, but because of his oaths and his guests, he commanded it to be given 
and sent orders to have John beheaded in the prison. 
John's head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. 
Later, John's disciples came and took his body and buried it. Then they went and brought word to Jesus. 
When Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But the crowds heard about it and followed him on foot from the towns. 
And when Jesus went ashore and saw a large crowd, he was moved with compassion for them and healed their sick. 
As evening approached, his disciples came to him and said, “This place is desolate, and the hour is now late. Send the crowds away so that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves.” 
But Jesus said to them, “They have no need to go away; you give them something to eat.” 
They said to him, “We have here only five loaves and two fish.” 
He said, “Bring them here to me.” 
Then he commanded the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said the blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds. 
They all ate and were filled, and the disciples picked up what was left over of the broken pieces, twelve baskets full. 
Now those who had eaten were about five thousand men, besides women and children. 
Immediately Jesus compelled the disciples to get into the boat and go ahead of him to the other side of the sea, while he sent the crowds away. 
After sending the crowds away, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. When evening came, he was there alone. 
Meanwhile, the boat was already in the middle of the sea, being tossed by the waves, for the wind was against them. 
And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. 
When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified and said, “It is a ghost!” And they cried out in fear. 
But Jesus immediately said to them, “Take courage! It is I; do not be afraid.” 
In response Peter said to him, “Lord, if it is yoʋ, command me to come to yoʋ on the water.” 
So he said, “Come.” Then Peter got down from the boat and walked on the water to go to Jesus. 
But when he saw the strong wind, he became frightened, and beginning to sink, he cried out, “Lord, save me!” 
Immediately Jesus stretched out his hand, took hold of him, and said to him, “O yoʋ of little faith, why did yoʋ doubt?” 
And when they had gotten into the boat, the wind ceased. 
Then those who were in the boat came and worshiped him, saying, “Truly yoʋ are the Son of God.” 
When they had crossed the sea, they came to the land of Gennesaret. 
And when the men of that place recognized Jesus, they sent word into that entire surrounding region, and people brought to him all who were sick. 
They begged him to let the sick touch even the fringe of his garment, and all who touched it were completely healed. 
