Hebrews.
Chapter 11.
Now faith is the assurance of what we hope for and the conviction of what we do not see. 
Because of their faith, the people of old were commended. 
By faith we understand that the universe was formed by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of what is visible. 
By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous when God gave approval to his gifts. And by faith he still speaks, even though he is dead. 
By faith Enoch was taken up so that he would not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken, he was commended as one who pleased God. 
And without faith it is impossible to please God, for anyone who comes to him must believe that God exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him. 
By faith Noah, when he was warned about things not yet seen, was moved with reverent fear and built an ark to save his household. By faith he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. 
By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. 
By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, fellow heirs of the same promise. 
For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. 
By faith Sarah herself received the ability to conceive, and she bore a child when she was beyond the proper age, because she considered him faithful who had made the promise. 
And so from one man, and he as good as dead, came descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and as countless as the sand on the seashore. 
These all died in faith without receiving the things that were promised. But they saw them from a distance and welcomed them. And they acknowledged that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth. 
For people who say such things make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. 
If they had been thinking of the land they left behind, they would have had an opportunity to return. 
Instead, they were longing for a better land, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. 
By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. He who had received the promises was ready to offer up his one and only son, 
even though God had said to him, “Through Isaac yoʋr descendants will be counted.” 
He reasoned that God could even raise him from the dead. And figuratively speaking, he did receive Isaac back from death. 
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. 
By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped as he leaned on the top of his staff. 
By faith Joseph, when his end was near, mentioned the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave instructions concerning his bones. 
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a beautiful child, and they did not fear the decree of the king. 
By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, 
choosing to be mistreated with the people of God rather than to enjoy the fleeting pleasure of sin. 
He considered the reproach of Christ to be greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was focused on the reward. 
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as though he could see him who is invisible. 
By faith he celebrated the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn would not touch the Israelites. 
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land, but when the Egyptians tried to do so, they were drowned. 
By faith the walls of Jericho fell after they had been encircled for seven days. 
By faith Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she had welcomed the spies in peace. 
And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets, 
who by faith conquered kingdoms, carried out justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong from weakness, became mighty in battle, and routed the armies of foreigners. 
Women received back their dead by resurrection. Other people were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might obtain a better resurrection. 
Others endured mocking and flogging, as well as chains and imprisonment. 
They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, and they were killed with the sword. They went around in sheepskins and goatskins; they were destitute, afflicted, and mistreated. 
The world was not worthy of them. They wandered in deserts and mountains, hiding in caves and holes in the ground. 
All these people were commended for their faith, but they did not receive what was promised. 
For God had planned something better for us, so that they would not be made perfect without us. 
