1 Peter.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, since Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same mentality, because whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, 
so as to live his remaining time in the flesh no longer for the evil desires of men, but for the will of God. 
For we have spent enough of our life doing what the Gentiles like to do, walking in sensual indulgences, evil desires, excesses of wine, revelries, drinking bouts, and illicit idolatries. 
They are surprised when you do not run with them into the same flood of debauchery, so they revile you. 
But they will give an account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. 
For this is the reason the gospel was preached even to the dead, so that, though they have been judged in the flesh as men are, they might live in the spirit as God does. 
The end of all things has drawn near. Therefore be alert and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. 
Above all, maintain a deep love for one another, because love will cover a multitude of sins. 
Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. 
As each of you has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. 
If anyone speaks, he should do so as one who speaks the oracles of God; if anyone serves, he should do so as one who serves from strength as God supplies it, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. 
Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial that has come upon you to test you, as though a strange thing were happening to you. 
But insofar as you share in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. 
If you are reproached for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. On their part he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified. 
None of you should suffer as a murderer, thief, evildoer, or meddler, 
but if anyone suffers as a Christian, he should not be ashamed, but should glorify God in this matter. 
For it is time for judgment to begin with the household of God, and if it begins first with us, what will be the outcome for those who are disobedient to the gospel of God? 
And, “If the righteous man is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly man and sinner?” 
Therefore, those who suffer according to the will of God should entrust their souls to him as their faithful Creator while doing what is good. 
