The Letter of Paul to the Ephesians.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus, the faithful in Christ Jesus: 
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, 
just as he chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world to be holy and unblemished before him in love. 
He foreordained us for adoption as his sons through Jesus Christ, according to the good pleasure of his will, 
to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he bestowed favor upon us in the Beloved. 
In him we have redemption through his blood, the remission of our trespasses, according to the riches of God's grace, 
which he lavished upon us, along with all wisdom and understanding. 
He made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ 
as a plan for the fullness of times, to bring everything together in Christ, things in heaven and things on earth. 
In Christ we have obtained an inheritance, having been foreordained according to the purpose of him who accomplishes all things according to the counsel of his own will, 
so that we who were the first to hope in Christ, might live for the praise of his glory. 
And when you heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in Christ, you were also sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, 
who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. 
For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, 
I have not ceased giving thanks for you as I remember you in my prayers. 
I pray that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation as you come to know him. 
I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, 
and what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great power. 
He exercised this power in Christ by raising him from the dead and seating him at his right hand in the heavenly places, 
far above every ruler and authority, power and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in the age to come. 
God put all things in subjection under Christ's feet and appointed him as head over all things for the church, 
which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. 
