Matthew.
Chapter 25.
“At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. 
Five of them were wise, and five were foolish. 
When those who were foolish took their lamps, they did not take oil with them, 
but the wise took oil in their flasks along with their lamps. 
When the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. 
But in the middle of the night there was a shout: ‘Behold, the bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him.’ 
Then all the virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. 
And the foolish ones said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’ 
But the wise replied, ‘No, there will not be enough for us and for you. Instead, go to those who sell oil and buy some for yourselves.’ 
But while they were on their way to buy it, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast. Then the door was shut. 
Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open the door for us.’ 
But he answered, ‘Truly I say to you, I do not know you.’ 
Therefore keep watch, for you do not know the day or the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. 
“For it is just like a man about to go on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted his possessions to them. 
To one he gave five talents, to another two talents, and to another one talent, to each according to his ability. And he immediately went on his journey. 
The man who had received the five talents went and traded with them, and made five more talents. 
In the same way, the man who had received the two talents also earned two more. 
But the man who had received the one talent went and dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money. 
“After a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. 
The man who had received the five talents came to him and brought the other five talents, saying, ‘Master, yoʋ entrusted me with five talents; behold, I have earned five more talents besides them.’ 
His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant! Yoʋ have been faithful over a few things; I will set yoʋ over many things. Enter into the joy of yoʋr master.’ 
The man who had received the two talents also came to him and said, ‘Master, yoʋ entrusted me with two talents; behold, I have earned two more talents besides them.’ 
His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant! Yoʋ have been faithful over a few things; I will set yoʋ over many things. Enter into the joy of yoʋr master.’ 
Then the man who had received the one talent came to him and said, ‘Master, I knew that yoʋ were a hard man, reaping where yoʋ did not sow and gathering where yoʋ scattered no seed. 
So I was afraid and went and hid yoʋr talent in the ground. Behold, yoʋ have what is yoʋrs.’ 
But his master answered him, ‘Yoʋ evil and lazy servant! Yoʋ knew, did yoʋ, that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I scattered no seed? 
Then yoʋ should have deposited my money with the bankers, and when I came I would have received what is mine with interest. 
Therefore take the talent from him and give it to the one who has ten talents. 
For everyone who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. But the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him. 
And throw that worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ 
“When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, he will sit down on his throne of glory. 
All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 
He will set the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. 
Then the King will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. 
For I was hungry, and you gave me something to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me something to drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in; 
I was naked, and you clothed me; I was sick, and you looked after me; I was in prison, and you came to visit me.’ 
Then the righteous will answer him, ‘Lord, when did we see yoʋ hungry and feed yoʋ, or thirsty and give yoʋ something to drink? 
When did we see yoʋ as a stranger and take yoʋ in, or naked and clothe yoʋ? 
When did we see yoʋ sick or in prison and come to visit yoʋ?’ 
The King will answer them, ‘Truly I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’ 
“Then he will say to those on his left, ‘Depart from me, you who are accursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. 
For I was hungry, and you did not give me anything to eat; I was thirsty, and you did not give me anything to drink; 
I was a stranger, and you did not take me in; I was naked, and you did not clothe me; I was sick and in prison, and you did not look after me.’ 
Then they too will answer, ‘Lord, when did we see yoʋ hungry or thirsty or as a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and not take care of yoʋ?’ 
He will answer them, ‘Truly I say to you, inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, neither did you do it to me.’ 
And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.” 
