Romans.
Chapter 8.
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and death. 
For what the law was powerless to do since it was weak through the flesh, God has done. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, 
so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 
For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. 
Now the mindset of the flesh is death, but the mindset of the Spirit is life and peace. 
The mindset of the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to the law of God; indeed, it is unable to do so. 
That is why those who are in the flesh cannot please God. 
You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. 
But if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is alive because of righteousness. 
And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of his Spirit who dwells in you. 
So then, brothers, we are under obligation, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh, 
for if you live according to the flesh, you are going to die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. 
For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. 
For you did not receive a spirit of slavery leading again to fear, but a spirit of adoption as sons, by which we cry out, “Abba! Father!” 
The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God. 
Now if we are children, we are also heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him so that we may also be glorified with him. 
I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing to the glory that will be revealed to us. 
The creation waits with eager longing for the sons of God to be revealed. 
For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope 
that the creation itself will also be set free from the slavery of corruption and brought into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. 
For we know that all creation has been groaning together with labor pains until now. 
Not only that, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we eagerly await our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. 
For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for why would someone hope for what he already sees? 
But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with patient endurance. 
In the same way the Spirit also helps us in our weaknesses. For we do not know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with inexpressible groanings. 
And he who searches the hearts knows the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. 
And we know that all things work together for the good of those who love God and are called according to his purpose. 
Because those whom he foreknew he also foreordained to be conformed to the image of his Son, so that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. 
And those whom he foreordained, he also called; and those whom he called, he also justified; and those whom he justified, he also glorified. 
What then shall we say in response to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? 
He who did not spare his own Son but delivered him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? 
Who will bring an accusation against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. 
Who is to condemn? Christ is the one who died, but more than that, he was raised and is at the right hand of God, interceding for us. 
Who can separate us from the love of Christ? Can tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? 
As it is written, “For yoʋr sake we face death all day long; we are regarded as sheep for slaughter.” 
Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 
For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, 
nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
