2 Corinthians.
Chapter 11.
If only you would bear with me for a bit in my foolishness! Yes, do bear with me! 
I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, because I promised you in marriage to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. 
But I am afraid that just as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, so your minds will be led astray from simple devotion to Christ. 
For if someone comes to you and preaches a different message about Jesus than the one we preached, or if you receive a different spirit than the one you received, or a different gospel than the one you accepted, you bear with it well enough. 
For I consider myself to be in no way inferior to these “super-apostles.” 
I may be untrained in speech, but I do not lack knowledge; indeed, in every way we have been made known to you in everything. 
Did I commit a sin by humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preached the gospel of God to you free of charge? 
I “robbed” other churches by receiving support from them in order to serve you! 
When I was with you and in need, I did not burden anyone, for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied what I needed. I kept myself from being a burden to you in any way, and I will continue to do so. 
As surely as the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of Achaia. 
Why? Because I do not love you? God knows I do! 
But what I am doing I will continue to do, so that I may deny any opportunity to those who want to be regarded as our equals in what they boast about. 
For such men are false apostles and deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. 
And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. 
Therefore it is no great surprise if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness. Their end will be according to their works. 
I repeat: Let no one consider me to be a fool. But if you do, receive me just as you would a fool, so that I too may boast a little. 
What I say in this confidence of boasting, I am not saying in accordance with the Lord, but as a fool. 
Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast. 
For you gladly bear with fools since you are so wise! 
You bear with it if anyone enslaves you, devours you, takes advantage of you, exalts himself, or hits you in the face. 
To my shame I admit that we were too weak for that! But whatever anyone else dares to boast about—I am speaking like a fool—I also dare to boast about. 
Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the offspring of Abraham? So am I. 
Are they servants of Christ? (I am speaking like I am out of my mind!) I am even more so, with far more labors, with beatings beyond measure, with far more imprisonments, and often facing death. 
Five times I received from the Jews the forty lashes minus one. 
Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked; a night and a day I spent in the open sea. 
I have often been on journeys, exposed to dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from my own people, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the wilderness, dangers at sea, and dangers among false brothers. 
I have endured labor and hardship, many sleepless nights, and hunger and thirst. I have often gone without food and have been cold due to a lack of sufficient clothing. 
Apart from these external things, there is my daily burden, my concern for all the churches. 
Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is made to stumble, and I do not burn with indignation? 
If I must boast, I will boast about the things that show my weakness. 
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. 
In Damascus the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of the Damascenes, wanting to arrest me, 
but I was let down in a basket through a window in the city wall and escaped from his hands. 
