Revelation.
Chapter 11.
Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, “Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar, and count those who worship there. 
But exclude the courtyard outside the temple; do not measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months. 
And I will give authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for one thousand two hundred sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.” 
These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. 
If anyone wants to harm them, fire comes out of their mouth and devours their enemies. If anyone wants to harm them, he must be killed in this way. 
These two men have the power to shut the sky, so that no rain will fall during the days of their prophesying. They also have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every plague as often as they want. 
When they have finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will wage war against them, and overpower and kill them. 
Their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city, which in a spiritual sense is called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was crucified. 
For three and a half days some from among the peoples, tribes, tongues, and nations will look at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb. 
And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and celebrate and give each other gifts, because these two prophets had tormented those who dwell on the earth. 
But after the three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered them, and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell upon those who were watching them. 
Then I heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “Come up here.” And they went up to heaven in a cloud while their enemies watched them. 
On that day there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven. 
The second woe has passed. Behold, the third woe is coming quickly. 
Then the seventh angel sounded his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever.” 
And the twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones before the throne of God, fell on their faces and worshiped God, 
saying, “We give thanks to yoʋ, O Lord God, the Almighty, who is and who was, because yoʋ have taken yoʋr great power and begun to reign. 
The nations were angry, but yoʋr wrath has come, and the time has come for judging the dead, and for rewarding yoʋr servants the prophets, along with the saints and those who fear yoʋr name, both small and great, and for destroying those who destroy the earth.” 
Then the temple of God in heaven was opened, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord was seen in his temple. And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, and great hail. 
