Philippians.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm in the Lord in this way, my beloved friends. 
I urge Euodia and Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord. 
Yes, I ask yoʋ also, my true companion, to assist these women, who have contended for the gospel at my side, along with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life. 
Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice! 
Let your gentleness be known to everyone. The Lord is near. 
Be anxious about nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, make your requests known to God. 
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. 
Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if anything is virtuous or praiseworthy, think about such things. 
Practice what you have learned and received from me, and what you have heard and seen in me. And the God of peace will be with you. 
I have great joy in the Lord that now at last you have revived your concern for me. Indeed, you were concerned but had no opportunity to show it. 
Not that I am speaking about being in need, for I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I find myself. 
I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether having plenty or being in need. 
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. 
Nevertheless, you did well by sharing with me in my affliction. 
As you Philippians know, in the early days of the gospel, when I set out from Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving except you alone. 
Even when I was in Thessalonica, you sent me help for my needs more than once. 
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. 
I have received everything in full and have an abundance. I am amply supplied, now that I have received from Epaphroditus the gifts you sent. They are an aroma of a sweet fragrance, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God. 
And my God will fully supply your every need through Christ Jesus according to his riches in glory. 
Glory be to our God and Father forever and ever! Amen. 
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 
All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household. 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
