2 Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
Surely it is not beneficial for me to boast, yet I will go on to visions and revelations from the Lord. 
I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. (Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know; God knows.) 
And I know that this man (whether in the body or out of the body I do not know; God knows) 
was caught up to Paradise and heard words too sacred to be spoken, which man is not permitted to utter. 
I will boast on behalf of that man, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except about my weaknesses. 
But even if I wanted to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth. Nevertheless, I refrain so that no one will think more of me than what he sees in me or hears from me. 
And to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations I received, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me so that I would not become conceited. 
Three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. 
But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for yoʋ, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 
So I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, and in distresses for the sake of Christ. For when I am weak, then I am strong. 
I have become a fool by boasting; you compelled me to do it. I ought to have been commended by you, for in no way have I been inferior to these “super-apostles,” even though I am nothing. 
The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with great perseverance, with signs, wonders, and miracles. 
In what way were you treated as inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this injustice! 
Behold, I am ready to come to you a third time, and I will not burden you, for I do not seek what belongs to you, but you yourselves. For children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children. 
So I will most gladly spend and be entirely spent for the sake of your souls, even if the more I love you, the less I am loved. 
Be that as it may, I did not burden you. But crafty fellow that I am, I apparently took you in by deceit! 
Did I take advantage of you through any of the men I sent to you? 
I urged Titus to visit you and sent our brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit and in the same footsteps? 
Do you still think that we are defending ourselves to you? In the sight of God we are speaking in Christ, and everything we do, beloved, is for your edification. 
For I fear that when I come I may not find you as I wish, and that you may not find me as you wish. I fear that there may be quarrels, jealousies, fits of anger, selfish ambitions, insults, words of gossip, puffed up behaviors, and disorderly actions. 
I fear that when I come again my God will humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over many who have previously sinned and not repented of the impurity, fornication, and sensuality they have practiced. 
