Acts.
Chapter 27.
When it was decided that we would sail to Italy, they transferred Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan Cohort. 
We got on board a ship of Adramyttium and put out to sea, intending to sail by the ports along the coast of Asia. With us was Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica. 
The next day we put in at Sidon, and Julius treated Paul kindly, allowing him to go to his friends and receive care. 
From there we put out to sea and sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us. 
After sailing across the open sea off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Myra of Lycia. 
There the centurion found an Alexandrian ship that was sailing to Italy and put us on board. 
We sailed along slowly for many days and arrived with difficulty off Cnidus. When the wind did not allow us to hold our course, we sailed under the lee of Crete off Salmone. 
Sailing along the coast with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, which was near the city of Lasea. 
Since much time had been lost and the voyage had now become dangerous because the Fast was already over, Paul advised the ship's officers, 
“Men, I perceive that this voyage is going to result in damage and great loss, not only of the cargo and of the ship, but also of our lives.” 
But the centurion was persuaded by the ship's captain and the shipowner rather than by what Paul said. 
Because the harbor was not a suitable place for spending the winter, the majority made a decision to set sail from there also, hoping to somehow reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete facing southwest and northwest, so that we could spend the winter there. 
When a south wind started blowing gently, they thought that the opportunity had come for them to carry out their plan. So they weighed anchor and sailed closely along the shore of Crete. 
But before long, a hurricane-force wind called Euroclydon swept down from the island. 
When the ship was caught by the storm and could not head into the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along. 
Running under the lee of a small island called Clauda, we were able with difficulty to secure the skiff. 
After hoisting it up, the sailors used supports to undergird the ship. Then, fearing they might run aground on the Syrtis, they lowered the gear, and in this manner the ship was driven along. 
The next day, because we were being severely battered by the storm, the sailors began throwing the cargo overboard. 
On the third day we threw the ship's tackle overboard with our own hands. 
When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and the violent storm continued to rage, all hope that we might be saved was lost. 
Since there had been little desire to eat, Paul stood up among them and said, “Men, you should have listened to my advice not to set sail from Crete; then you would have spared yourselves this damage and loss. 
But now I advise you to be of good cheer, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship. 
For this very night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood beside me 
and said, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul; yoʋ must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted yoʋ the safety of all who are sailing with yoʋ.’ 
Therefore be of good cheer, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen just as I have been told. 
But we must run aground on some island.” 
When the fourteenth night had come, as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors suspected that they were approaching some land. 
So they took a sounding and found it to be twenty fathoms. After going a little farther, they took another sounding and found it to be fifteen fathoms. 
Fearing that we might run aground on the rocks, they let down four anchors from the stern and prayed for daybreak to come. 
Then the sailors tried to escape from the ship by lowering the skiff into the sea under the pretense that they were going to lay out anchors from the bow. 
So Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, “If these men do not remain in the ship you cannot be saved.” 
Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the skiff and let it drift away. 
When daybreak was about to come, Paul encouraged them all to take some food, saying, “Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense without eating, having taken nothing. 
Therefore I urge you to take some food, for this is important for your survival, since not a hair will fall from the head of any one of you.” 
After saying this, Paul took some bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all. Then he broke it and began to eat. 
They were all encouraged and took food themselves. 
(Altogether there were two hundred seventy-six of us on the ship.) 
When they had eaten their fill of food, they began to lighten the ship by throwing the wheat out into the sea. 
When daybreak came, the sailors did not recognize the land. But they noticed a bay with a beach and decided that, if possible, they would run the ship ashore there. 
So they cut away the anchors and left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the bands of the rudders. Then they hoisted the foresail up into the blowing wind and made for the beach. 
But they struck a sandbar and ran the ship aground. The bow stuck fast and remained immovable, and the stern was being broken apart by the force of the waves. 
The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would swim away and escape. 
But the centurion, wishing to save Paul's life, kept them from carrying out their plan. So he ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and get to land, 
and the rest were to follow, some on planks and some on pieces of the ship. And so it was that they were all brought safely to land. 
