Luke.
Chapter 13.
Now there were some present at that very time who told Jesus about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. 
Jesus responded to them, “Do you think that those Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans because they suffered such things? 
No, I tell you, but if you do not repent, you will all likewise perish. 
Or those eighteen who were killed when the tower in Siloam fell on them, do you think that they were worse offenders than all the other people who dwell in Jerusalem? 
No, I tell you, but if you do not repent, you will all likewise perish.” 
Then he told this parable: “A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it, but did not find any. 
So he said to the vinedresser, ‘Behold, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree and have not found any. Cut it down! Why should it use up the soil?’ 
But the vinedresser answered him, ‘Sir, allow it to remain for this year also, and I will dig around it and put manure on it. 
If it bears fruit, fine; but if not, yoʋ can cut it down in the coming year.’ ” 
One Sabbath Jesus was teaching in one of the synagogues. 
And behold, there was a woman who had suffered from a spirit of disability for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not stand up completely straight. 
When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, “Woman, yoʋ are set free from yoʋr disability.” 
Then he laid his hands on her, and at once her back was made straight, and she began glorifying God. 
But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the crowd in response, “There are six days in which work should be done; so come and be healed on those days and not on the Sabbath day.” 
Then the Lord answered him, “Hypocrites! Do not each of you on the Sabbath untie yoʋr ox or donkey from the manger, lead it away, and give it water? 
Then should not this woman, a daughter of Abraham whom Satan has bound for eighteen long years, be released from this bondage on the Sabbath day?” 
When he said this, all his adversaries were put to shame, and the entire crowd was rejoicing over all the glorious things that he was doing. 
Then Jesus said, “What is the kingdom of God like? To what should I compare it? 
It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden. It grew and became a large tree, and the birds of the sky nested in its branches.” 
Again he said, “To what should I compare the kingdom of God? 
It is like leaven that a woman took and mixed into three measures of flour until it had all been leavened.” 
Then Jesus traveled through towns and villages, teaching and making his way to Jerusalem. 
Someone said to him, “Lord, are there only a few who are being saved?” Jesus said to them, 
“Strive to enter through the narrow gate. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able to. 
Once the master of the house gets up and shuts the door, you will begin to stand outside and knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open the door for us.’ But he will answer you, ‘I do not know you or where you are from.’ 
Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in yoʋr presence, and yoʋ taught in our streets.’ 
But he will say, ‘I tell you, I do not know you or where you are from. Depart from me, all you workers of unrighteousness.’ 
In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves cast out. 
People will come from east and west, and from north and south, and recline at the banquet table in the kingdom of God. 
And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last.” 
On that same day some Pharisees came up and said to Jesus, “Leave this place and go somewhere else, for Herod wants to kill yoʋ.” 
But he said to them, “Go tell that fox, ‘Behold, I will continue casting out demons and performing healings today and tomorrow, and on the third day I will finish my work.’ 
Nevertheless, I must go on my way today, tomorrow, and the following day, for it is unthinkable that a prophet should perish outside of Jerusalem. 
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to yoʋ! How often I have wanted to gather yoʋr children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, but you were not willing! 
Behold, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will certainly not see me again until the time comes when you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ” 
