1 Corinthians.
Chapter 14.
Pursue love, and earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but even more that you may prophesy. 
For he who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he speaks mysteries in the Spirit. 
But he who prophesies speaks edification, encouragement, and comfort to others. 
He who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church. 
Now I would like all of you to speak in tongues, but even more that you would prophesy. For greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be edified. 
Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I speak to you with a revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching? 
It is the same way with lifeless instruments that produce sound, such as the flute or harp. If they do not produce distinct notes, how will anyone recognize what is being played? 
And if the trumpet does not produce a distinct sound, who will prepare himself for battle? 
It is the same with you. If you do not produce intelligible speech with your tongue, how will anyone know what you are saying? You will just be speaking into the air. 
There are undoubtedly many kinds of languages in the world, and none of them is without meaning. 
If then I do not know the meaning of a particular language, I will be a foreigner to him who is speaking, and he who is speaking will be a foreigner to me. 
It is the same with you. Since you earnestly desire spiritual gifts, seek to abound in them for the edification of the church. 
Therefore anyone who speaks in a tongue should pray for the ability to interpret what he says. 
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. 
What then should I do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also. I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing praise with my mind also. 
Otherwise, if yoʋ bless with yoʋr spirit, how will anyone in the position of an outsider say “Amen” when yoʋ give thanks, since he does not know what yoʋ are saying? 
For yoʋ may very well be giving thanks, but the other person is not edified. 
I give thanks to my God speaking in tongues more than you all. 
Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue. 
Brothers, do not be childish in your way of thinking. Rather, as to malice be infants, but in your way of thinking be mature. 
In the law it is written, “With foreign tongues and with foreign lips I will speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.” 
So then, tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers but for believers. 
So if the whole church comes together and everyone is speaking in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your minds? 
But if an unbeliever or outsider comes in while everyone is prophesying, he will be convicted by all and called to account by all. 
The secrets of his heart will thus be revealed, and he will fall on his face and worship God, declaring that God is truly among you. 
What then should you do, brothers? When you come together, each one of you has a psalm, a teaching, a tongue, a revelation, or an interpretation. Everything must be done for edification. 
If any speak in a tongue, only two, or at the most three, should speak; they should each speak in turn, and someone must interpret. 
But if there is no interpreter, they should keep quiet in the church and speak in tongues privately to God. 
Two or three prophets should speak, and the others should evaluate what they say. 
But if something is revealed to another who is seated, the first speaker should be silent. 
For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged. 
Remember that the spirits of prophets are subject to the prophets. 
For God is not a God of disorder but of peace; this is true in all the churches of the saints. 
Your women should be silent in the churches, for they have not been permitted to speak, but must be in submission, just as the law says. 
If they want to learn anything, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is shameful for women to speak in church. 
Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only ones it has reached? 
If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual person, he should acknowledge that the things I am writing to you are commandments of the Lord. 
But if anyone ignores this, let him be ignorant. 
So then, brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy and do not forbid speaking in tongues. 
Let all things be done decently and in order. 
