1 Timothy.
Chapter 5.
Do not rebuke an older man, but appeal to him as you would to a father. Speak to younger men as brothers, 
older women as mothers, and younger women as sisters, in all purity. 
Honor widows who are truly widows. 
But if any widow has children or grandchildren, they should first learn to show godliness toward their own household and to make some repayment to their parents, for this is acceptable in the sight of God. 
Now a woman who is truly a widow and left all alone has put her hope in God and continues night and day in her supplications and prayers. 
But she who lives in self-indulgence is dead even while she lives. 
Give these commands as well, so that no one will be open to blame. 
But if anyone does not provide for his own relatives, and especially for those of his own household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. 
A widow may be put on the list to receive support if she is at least sixty years old, has been the wife of one husband, 
and has a reputation for good works, that is, if she has brought up children, shown hospitality, washed the feet of the saints, helped the afflicted, and devoted herself to every good work. 
But reject younger widows, for when their sensual desires draw them away from Christ, they wish to marry, 
thus bringing judgment on themselves because they have broken their previous pledge. 
At the same time, they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house. And they are not only idle, but also gossips and busybodies, saying things they should not say. 
So I advise the younger widows to marry, bear children, and manage their households, so as to give the adversary no opportunity to revile us. 
For some have already turned away to follow Satan. 
If any believing man or woman has relatives who are widows, they must help them; the church should not be burdened, so that it may help those who are truly widows. 
Elders who lead well should be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. 
For the Scripture says, “Yoʋ shall not muzzle an ox while it is threshing,” and, “The worker is worthy of his wages.” 
Do not accept an accusation against an elder unless it is confirmed by two or three witnesses. 
As for those who sin, reprove them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear. 
I solemnly charge yoʋ before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the chosen angels to observe these things without partiality, doing nothing out of favoritism. 
Do not lay hands on anyone hastily, and do not take part in the sins of others; keep yoʋrself pure. 
(No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for the sake of yoʋr stomach and yoʋr frequent illnesses.) 
The sins of some are obvious, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others trail along behind. 
In the same way, good works are obvious, and even those that are not obvious cannot remain hidden. 
