Acts.
Chapter 2.
When the day of Pentecost came, all the believers were in the same place with one accord. 
Suddenly a sound like a mighty rushing wind came from heaven, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. 
Divided tongues that looked like fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. 
Then they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking in other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. 
Now there were devout Jews from every nation under heaven dwelling in Jerusalem. 
When this sound occurred, the multitude came together, and they were bewildered because each one of them heard his own language being spoken. 
They were all astonished and amazed, saying to one another, “Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans? 
How then do we each hear them in our own native languages? 
Parthians, Medes, Elamites; those who dwell in Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, 
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the districts of Libya that are near Cyrene; visitors from Rome (both Jews and converts to Judaism), 
Cretans and Arabs—we hear them speaking about the mighty acts of God in our own tongues.” 
They were all amazed and greatly perplexed, saying to one another, “What could this mean?” 
But others scoffed at the believers, saying, “They are filled with new wine.” 
Then Peter stood up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and declared to them, “Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words. 
These men are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is only the third hour of the day. 
But this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel: 
‘In the last days, says God, I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams. 
Even upon my male and female servants I will pour out my Spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. 
I will perform wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below: blood, fire, and a mist of smoke. 
The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. 
And everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved.’ 
“Men of Israel, listen to these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with miracles, wonders, and signs that God did through him in your midst, just as you yourselves well know, 
this man, who was delivered up by the deliberate plan and foreknowledge of God, you took and put to death, having him nailed to the cross by the hands of lawless men. 
But God raised him up, releasing him from the pangs of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. 
For David says about him, ‘I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand so that I will not be shaken. 
Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue rejoiced; moreover, my flesh will dwell in hope. 
For yoʋ will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor will yoʋ let yoʋr Holy One see corruption. 
Yoʋ have made known to me the paths of life; yoʋ will fill me with joy by yoʋr presence.’ 
“Brothers, I can say to you with confidence concerning our patriarch David that he died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. 
So then, because he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn an oath to him that from among his descendants, according to the flesh, he would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne, 
David foresaw what would happen and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, saying that his soul was not abandoned to Hades and that his flesh did not see corruption. 
This Jesus God has raised up, of which we are all witnesses. 
Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you now see and hear. 
For David did not ascend to heaven, but he himself says, ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand 
until I make yoʋr enemies a footstool for yoʋr feet.” ’ 
Therefore, let all the house of Israel know with certainty that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified.” 
When they heard this, they were pierced to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, “Brothers, what should we do?” 
Peter said to them, “Repent and be baptized, each one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
For this promise is for you, for your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God calls to himself.” 
With many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, “Be saved from this crooked generation.” 
Then those who gladly received his word were baptized, and about three thousand souls were added on that day. 
They devoted themselves to the teaching of the apostles and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. 
A sense of awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done by the apostles. 
All who believed were together and had all things in common. 
They were selling their possessions and belongings, and distributing the proceeds to all, as anyone had need. 
Day by day as they continued meeting together with one accord in the temple courts and breaking bread from house to house, they shared food together with gladness and simplicity of heart, 
praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. 
