Mark.
Chapter 6.
Then Jesus left that place and went to his hometown, and his disciples followed him. 
When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished, saying, “Where did this man get these things? And what is this wisdom that has been given to him, that such miracles are done by his hands? 
Is this not the carpenter, the son of Mary, and the brother of James, Joses, Judas, and Simon? Are not his sisters here with us?” And they took offense at him. 
Then Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown, among his relatives, and in his own household.” 
So he could do no miracle there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. 
And he was amazed at their unbelief. Then Jesus went around among the villages teaching. 
He summoned the twelve and began to send them out two by two, giving them authority over unclean spirits. 
He instructed them to take nothing for their journey except a staff—no knapsack, no bread, and no copper money in their belts. 
He told them to wear sandals but not an extra tunic. 
He also said to them, “Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you leave that place. 
If anyone will not receive you or listen to you, shake the dust off your feet as you leave that place, as a testimony against them. Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah on the day of judgment than for that city.” 
So they went out and preached that people should repent. 
They also cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. 
Now King Herod heard about this, for Jesus' name had become known, and he said, “John the Baptist has been raised from the dead, and that is why these mighty powers are at work in him.” 
Others said, “He is Elijah.” And others said, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets.” 
But when Herod heard this, he said, “This is John, whom I beheaded; he has been raised from the dead.” 
For Herod himself had sent men to arrest John and chain him in prison on account of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, whom Herod had married. 
For John had been saying to Herod, “It is not lawful for yoʋ to have yoʋr brother's wife.” 
So Herodias held a grudge against John and wanted to kill him, but she was not able to do so. 
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he protected him. When Herod listened to John, he would listen to him gladly and do many things. 
But an opportune day came. On his birthday Herod prepared a banquet for his nobles, military commanders, and the prominent men of Galilee. 
When the daughter of Herodias came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests. So the king said to the girl, “Ask me for whatever yoʋ wish, and I will give it to yoʋ.” 
He swore to her, “Whatever yoʋ ask me, I will give to yoʋ, up to half of my kingdom.” 
So she went out and said to her mother, “What should I ask for?” Her mother said, “The head of John the Baptist.” 
Immediately the girl came in with haste to the king and made her request, saying, “I want yoʋ to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.” 
Although the king was very sad, because of his oaths and his guests, he did not want to reject her. 
So the king immediately sent an executioner and commanded that John's head be brought back. 
The executioner then went and beheaded John in the prison, brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl. And the girl gave it to her mother. 
When John's disciples heard about it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb. 
Meanwhile, the apostles gathered around Jesus and told him about all they had done and taught. 
Then he said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest for a little while.” For many people were coming and going, and Jesus and his apostles did not even have an opportunity to eat. 
So they went away to a desolate place in the boat by themselves. 
Now many saw them going away and recognized Jesus. They ran together on foot from all the towns, got there ahead of them, and gathered around him. 
When Jesus went ashore and saw a large crowd, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. 
When the hour was already quite late, his disciples came to him and said, “This place is desolate, and the hour is now late. 
Send the people away so that they may go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat.” 
But Jesus answered them, “You give them something to eat.” They said to him, “Are we to go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat?” 
He said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” When they found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.” 
Then he directed them to have all the people sit down in groups on the green grass. 
So they sat down in groups of hundreds and fifties. 
Then he took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed the food. He broke the loaves and gave them to his disciples to set before the people, and he divided the two fish among them all. 
They all ate and were filled, 
and the disciples picked up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces and of the fish. 
Now those who had eaten the loaves were five thousand men. 
Immediately Jesus compelled his disciples to get into the boat and go ahead of him to the other side of the sea, to Bethsaida, while he sent the crowd away. 
After taking leave of them, he went to the mountain to pray. 
When evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he was alone on the land. 
He saw the disciples straining as they rowed, for the wind was against them. About the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea, and intended to pass them by. 
But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost and cried out. 
For they all saw him and were terrified. But Jesus immediately said to them, “Take courage! It is I; do not be afraid.” 
Then he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. And they were utterly and completely amazed and in awe; 
for they did not understand the significance of what had happened with the loaves, because their hearts were hardened. 
When they had crossed the sea, they came to the land of Gennesaret and moored the boat. 
When they got out of the boat, people immediately recognized Jesus. 
So the people ran around throughout that entire surrounding region and began to carry the sick on mats to wherever they heard he was. 
And wherever he went, to villages, cities, or the countryside, they would lay the sick in the marketplaces and beg him to let the sick touch even the fringe of his garment. And all who touched it were healed. 
