Galatians.
Chapter 5.
Stand fast therefore in the freedom with which Christ has set us free, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. 
Behold, I, Paul, say to you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no benefit to you. 
I testify again to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to keep the entire law. 
You who are seeking to be justified by the law are alienated from Christ; you have fallen away from grace. 
For through the Spirit, by faith, we eagerly await the hope of righteousness. 
For in Christ Jesus neither does circumcision have any significance, nor uncircumcision, but what matters is faith working through love. 
You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? 
This persuasion does not come from him who calls you. 
A little leaven leavens the whole lump. 
I have confidence in you in the Lord that you will adopt no other mindset. But the one who is troubling you will bear his judgment, whoever he may be. 
Now, brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been done away with. 
Oh that those who are unsettling you would cut themselves off! 
You were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but serve one another in love. 
For the entire law is fulfilled in this one commandment: “Yoʋ shall love yoʋr neighbor as yoʋrself.” 
But if you bite and devour one another, watch out, or you will be consumed by one another. 
I say then, walk by the Spirit and you will certainly not gratify the desires of the flesh. 
For the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit desires what is contrary to the flesh. These are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the very things you want to do. 
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 
Now the works of the flesh are obvious: adultery, fornication, impurity, sensuality, 
idolatry, sorcery, hostilities, quarrels, jealousies, fits of rage, selfish ambitions, dissensions, factions, 
envy, murder, drunkenness, revelries, and the like. I warn you, just as I warned you before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
gentleness, and self-control; against such things there is no law. 
Now those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 
Since we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. 
Let us not become conceited, provoking one another and envying one another. 
