Matthew.
Chapter 7.
“Do not judge, so that you will not be judged. 
For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. 
Why do yoʋ see the speck in yoʋr brother's eye, but do not consider the beam in yoʋr own eye? 
Or how will yoʋ say to yoʋr brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of yoʋr eye,’ when there is a beam in yoʋr own eye? 
Hypocrite! First take the beam out of yoʋr own eye, and then yoʋ will see clearly to take the speck out of yoʋr brother's eye. 
“Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them with their feet, and then turn and tear you to pieces. 
“Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. 
For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. 
Or what man is there among you, who, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone; 
and if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? 
If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask him! 
“Therefore whatever you wish that others would do to you, do the same also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets. 
“Enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. 
How narrow is the gate, and restricted the way that leads to life, and there are few who find it! 
“Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves. 
By their fruits you will know them. Do people gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles? 
In the same way, every good tree produces good fruit, but a bad tree produces bad fruit. 
A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, neither can a bad tree produce good fruit. 
Every tree that does not produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
Therefore by their fruits you will know them. 
“Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of my Father in heaven. 
Many will say to me on that day, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in yoʋr name, and in yoʋr name cast out demons, and in yoʋr name do many miracles?’ 
Then I will declare to them, ‘I never knew you; depart from me, you who practice lawlessness.’ 
“Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them I will compare to a wise man who built his house on the rock. 
The rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. 
But everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be compared to a foolish man who built his house on the sand. 
The rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall.” 
When Jesus finished saying these things, the crowds were astonished at his teaching, 
because he was teaching them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. 
