1 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
People ought to regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. 
Now it is required of stewards that they be found faithful. 
But for me it is a very small thing if I am judged by you, or by any human court. Indeed, I do not even judge myself. 
For I am conscious of nothing against myself, yet I am not thereby acquitted; but he who judges me is the Lord. 
So then, do not judge anything before the appointed time. Wait until the Lord comes, who will bring to light what is hidden in darkness and reveal the intentions of the heart. At that time each person will receive his praise from God. 
Now, brothers, I have applied these things to myself and Apollos for your sake, so that through us you may learn not to think beyond what is written, so that you may not be puffed up, with each one of you supporting one man against another. 
For who regards yoʋ as superior? What do yoʋ have that yoʋ did not receive? And if yoʋ received it, why do yoʋ boast as though yoʋ did not receive it? 
You are already full! You have already become rich! You have begun to reign without us! And how I wish that you really were reigning, so that we could reign with you! 
For I think that God has put us apostles on display at the end of the procession, as sentenced to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and men. 
We are fools for the sake of Christ, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You are esteemed, but we are dishonored. 
To the present hour we hunger and thirst; we are poorly clothed and beaten down, with no home of our own. 
We labor, working with our own hands. When we are reviled, we bless; when we are persecuted, we endure; 
when we are slandered, we encourage. We have become like the refuse of the world, the scum of all things, even to this present time. 
I am not writing this to shame you, but rather I am admonishing you as my beloved children. 
For even if you had ten thousand guardians in Christ, you would not have many fathers. For in Christ Jesus I became a father to you through the gospel. 
Therefore I urge you to be imitators of me. 
That is why I have sent you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord. He will remind you of my ways in Christ, just as I teach them everywhere in every church. 
But some of you have become puffed up, as though I were not coming to you. 
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of those who have become puffed up, but their power. 
For the kingdom of God is demonstrated not by talk but by power. 
What do you prefer? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love and a spirit of gentleness? 
