John.
Chapter 20.
On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and she saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. 
So she ran and went to Simon Peter and to the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him.” 
So Peter went out, along with the other disciple, and they began making their way to the tomb. 
The two were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. 
Stooping down to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. 
Then Simon Peter, who had been following him, arrived and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there 
and the facecloth that had been on Jesus' head. But it was not lying with the linen cloths; it was folded up separately in another place. 
Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in. He saw and believed. 
(For they did not yet understand the Scripture that Jesus must rise from the dead.) 
Then the disciples went back to their homes. 
But Mary stood near the tomb, weeping outside. As she was weeping, she stooped down to look into the tomb 
and saw two angels in white sitting where Jesus' body had been laid, one at the head and one at the feet. 
They said to her, “Woman, why are yoʋ weeping?” She said to them, “They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him.” 
After saying this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not know it was Jesus. 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are yoʋ weeping? Whom are yoʋ seeking?” Supposing that he was the gardener, she said to him, “Sir, if yoʋ have carried him away, tell me where yoʋ have laid him, and I will take him away.” 
Jesus said to her, “Mary!” She turned and said to him, “Rabboni!” (which means “Teacher”). 
Jesus said to her, “Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brothers and tell them that I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.” 
So Mary Magdalene went and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and that he had said these things to her. 
In the evening of that day, the first day of the week, when the disciples were gathered together with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.” 
After saying this, he showed them his hands and his side, and the disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord. 
Again Jesus said to them, “Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, so I am sending you.” 
After saying this, he breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit. 
If you remit the sins of any, their sins are remitted; if you retain the sins of any, their sins are retained.” 
Now Thomas (called Didymus), one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came. 
So the other disciples said to him, “We have seen the Lord.” But he said to them, “Unless I see the nail marks in his hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side, I will certainly not believe.” 
Eight days later, Jesus' disciples were again inside, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, “Peace be with you.” 
Then he said to Thomas, “Put yoʋr finger here and look at my hands. Reach out yoʋr hand and put it into my side. Do not doubt but believe.” 
In response Thomas said to him, “My Lord and my God!” 
Then Jesus said to him, “Because yoʋ have seen me, have yoʋ come to believe? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have come to believe.” 
Jesus performed many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. 
But these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. 
