Mark.
Chapter 5.
Then they came to the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes. 
As Jesus got out of the boat, he was immediately met by a man from the tombs who had an unclean spirit. 
This man lived among the tombs, and no one could bind him, not even with chains. 
For he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he tore the chains apart and broke the shackles in pieces. No one was strong enough to subdue him. 
Night and day, on the mountains and among the tombs, he would continually cry out and cut himself with stones. 
When he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and bowed down before him. 
Then he cried out with a loud voice and said, “What do yoʋ have to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure yoʋ by God, do not torment me.” 
For Jesus had said to him, “Come out of the man, yoʋ unclean spirit!” 
Then Jesus asked him, “What is yoʋr name?” He answered, “My name is Legion, for we are many.” 
And he earnestly begged Jesus not to send them out of that region. 
Now there was a large herd of pigs feeding there near the mountain. 
All the demons begged Jesus, “Send us into the pigs, so that we may go into them.” 
So he immediately gave them permission, and the unclean spirits came out and went into the pigs. Then the herd, about two thousand in number, rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and were drowned in the sea. 
Those who had been feeding the pigs then ran off and reported it in the city and in the countryside. So the people went out to see what had happened. 
They came to Jesus and saw the man who had been possessed by demons sitting there, clothed and in his right mind—the man who had been possessed by the “Legion”—and they were afraid. 
Those who had seen it told them what had happened to the man who had been possessed by demons, and they also told them about the pigs. 
Then the people began begging Jesus to depart from their region. 
When Jesus got into the boat, the man who had been possessed by demons begged to go with him. 
But Jesus did not permit him to do so. Instead, he said to him, “Go to yoʋr house and to yoʋr people, and report to them all that the Lord has done for yoʋ and how he has had mercy on yoʋ.” 
So the man went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis all that Jesus had done for him, and all the people were amazed. 
When Jesus had again crossed over in the boat to the other side of the sea, a large crowd was gathered around him, and he was by the sea. 
And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came, whose name was Jairus. When he saw Jesus, he fell down at his feet 
and begged him earnestly, “My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come and lay yoʋr hands on her so that she may be healed, and she will live.” 
So Jesus went with him, and a large crowd followed him and pressed in on him. 
Now there was a woman who had suffered from a flow of blood for twelve years. 
She had suffered a great deal under many physicians and had spent all she had, yet received no benefit from it, but had only grown worse. 
When she heard about Jesus, she came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment. 
For she said, “If I touch even his garments, I will be healed.” 
Immediately her flow of blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she had been healed from her affliction. 
Jesus immediately perceived in himself that power had gone out from him, so he turned around in the crowd and said, “Who touched my garments?” 
His disciples said to him, “Yoʋ see the crowd pressing in on yoʋ, and yet yoʋ say, ‘Who touched me?’ ” 
But he kept looking around to see who had done it. 
Now the woman was frightened and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, so she came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. 
Then Jesus said to her, “Daughter, yoʋr faith has healed yoʋ. Go in peace, and be healed of yoʋr affliction.” 
While he was still speaking, some people came from the ruler of the synagogue's house and said, “Yoʋr daughter has died; why trouble the teacher any further?” 
But when Jesus heard what they said, he immediately said to the ruler of the synagogue, “Do not be afraid; only believe.” 
From that point he did not allow anyone to accompany him except Peter, James, and John the brother of James. 
When he came to the ruler of the synagogue's house, he saw a commotion, people weeping and wailing loudly. 
Then he went in and said to them, “Why are you making a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead but sleeping.” 
And they began laughing at him. But he put them all outside, took the child's father and mother and those who were with him, and went in to where the child was lying down. 
Then he took hold of the child's hand and said to her, “Talitha koumi,” which means, “Little girl, I say to yoʋ, arise.” 
Immediately the girl got up and began to walk (for she was twelve years old), and they were overcome with great amazement. 
Then he gave them strict orders not to let anyone know about this, and he told them to give her something to eat. 
