2 Corinthians.
Chapter 8.
Now we make known to you, brothers, the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia. 
During a severe trial of affliction, their abundant joy and their deep poverty abounded in a wealth of generosity on their part. 
For I testify that according to their ability, and even beyond their ability, they gave of their own accord, 
urgently begging us for the privilege of contributing to the gift for the saints in Jerusalem. 
And they did not do this in the way we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then to us by the will of God. 
So we have urged Titus, who previously encouraged you to begin gathering money, to return and help you complete this gracious gift. 
But just as you abound in everything—in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete earnestness, and in your love for us—see that you abound in this gracious gift as well. 
I am not saying this as a command, but I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. 
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that by his poverty you could become rich. 
So I am giving my advice about what is best for you in this matter. Last year you were not only the first who wanted to give, but you were also the first to begin doing so. 
Now finish doing it, so that your eager willingness to give may be matched by your completion of the gift, according to what you have. 
For if the eager willingness is there, it is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have. 
I do not mean there should be relief for others and hardship for you, but it is a matter of equality. At the present time your abundance should provide for their need, 
so that in turn their abundance may provide for your need, and thus there may be equality. 
As it is written, “He who gathered much had nothing left over, and he who gathered little had no lack.” 
But thanks be to God, who has put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care for you that I have. 
For Titus not only accepted our appeal, but with great enthusiasm he is coming to you of his own accord. 
With him we are sending the brother who is praised by all the churches for his preaching of the gospel. 
And not only that, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us as we administer this gracious gift for the glory of the Lord himself and to show our eager willingness to help. 
We are taking this precaution so that no one will discredit us with respect to this large sum that we are administering. 
For we are giving careful thought to do what is right, not only in the sight of the Lord but also in the sight of men. 
We are also sending with them our brother whom we have often tested and found to be earnest in many matters, and now he is even more earnest because of his great confidence in you. 
If there is any question about Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker in your service. If there is any question about our brothers, they are delegates of the churches, the glory of Christ. 
Therefore show them in front of all the churches the proof of your love and the reason for our boasting about you. 
