2 Corinthians.
Chapter 5.
Now we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not made by human hands. 
For in this tent we groan, longing to be further clothed with our heavenly dwelling, 
because when we are clothed, we will not be found naked. 
For while we are in this tent, we groan and are burdened, not because we want to be unclothed, but further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. 
Now he who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has also given us the Spirit as a guarantee. 
Therefore we have courage at all times, and we know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord. 
For we walk by faith, not by sight. 
Yes, we have courage and would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. 
Therefore, whether we are at home or away, we aspire to be pleasing to him. 
For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each of us may receive his due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. 
Therefore, because we know what it is to fear the Lord, we persuade others. What we are is known to God, and I hope that it is known in your consciences as well. 
For we are not commending ourselves to you again, but we are giving you an opportunity to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearances and not about matters of the heart. 
If we are out of our mind, it is for God; if we are in our right mind, it is for you. 
For the love of Christ compels us, because we have concluded that if one died for all, then all have died. 
And he died for all so that those who live may no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised. 
So from now on we regard no one according to the flesh. Even if we have known Christ according to the flesh, we no longer know him in that way. 
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new. 
And all these things are from God, who reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation, 
namely, that God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting people's trespasses against them. And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation. 
Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us. We plead on Christ's behalf: “Be reconciled to God.” 
For God made him who did not know sin to be a sin offering for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. 
