Ephesians.
Chapter 5.
Therefore, be imitators of God, as beloved children, 
and walk in love, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. 
But fornication, impurity of any kind, and covetousness must not even be mentioned among you, because such things are improper for saints. 
Nor should there be any obscenity, foolish talk, or coarse joking, which are not fitting, but there should be thanksgiving instead. 
For you know that no one who is a fornicator, impure, or covetous (that is, an idolater) has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. 
Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience. 
Therefore do not be partners with them. 
For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light 
(for the fruit of the Spirit is found in all goodness, righteousness, and truth). 
Carefully determine what is pleasing to the Lord. 
Do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but expose them instead. 
For it is shameful even to mention what such people do in secret. 
But everything exposed by the light becomes illuminated, and everything that is illuminated becomes a light. 
Therefore it says, “Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine upon yoʋ.” 
See then that you walk carefully, not as unwise people but as wise, 
making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. 
Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 
Do not be drunk with wine, which leads to debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, 
speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody with your hearts to the Lord, 
always giving thanks for everything to our God and Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and submitting to one another in the fear of Christ. 
Wives, submit to your husbands, as to the Lord. 
For the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head and Savior of the church, which is his body. 
Just as the church submits to Christ, so wives should submit to their husbands in everything. 
Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her 
to sanctify her by cleansing her with the washing of water by the word, 
so that he might present her to himself as a glorious church, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but holy and unblemished. 
In the same way husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. 
For no one has ever hated his own flesh, but he nourishes and cares for it, just as the Lord does for the church, 
because we are members of his body, of his flesh and of his bones. 
“For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.” 
This is a profound mystery, but I am talking about Christ and the church. 
Nevertheless, each man among you must love his own wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband. 
