Acts.
Chapter 4.
As Peter and John were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple guard, and the Sadducees came to them, 
greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
So they arrested them and took them into custody until the next day, for it was already evening. 
But many who heard the word believed, and the number of men who believed came to about five thousand. 
On the next day, the rulers, elders, and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem, 
along with Annas the high priest, Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and all who were members of the high-priestly family. 
After making Peter and John stand before them, they began to question them: “By what power or by what name did you do this?” 
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, “Rulers of the people and elders of Israel, 
if we are being examined today about a good deed done to a disabled man and by what means he has been healed, 
let it be known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that this man is standing before you in good health by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead. 
This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. 
There is salvation in no other, for there is no other name given among men by which we must be saved.” 
When they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and when they realized that they were uneducated and untrained men, they were amazed and recognized that they had been with Jesus. 
But since they could see the man who had been healed standing there with them, they had nothing to say in opposition. 
So they ordered Peter and John to step out from the Sanhedrin while they conferred with one another, 
saying, “What should we do with these men? For it is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem that a notable sign has been done through them, and we cannot deny it. 
But so that it may not spread any further among the people, we will strictly warn them to speak no more in this name to any of the people.” 
Then they called them in and ordered them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. 
But Peter and John answered them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge. 
For we cannot help but speak about what we have seen and heard.” 
So after threatening Peter and John further, they released them, finding no way to punish them, because all the people were glorifying God for what had happened. 
For the man on whom this sign of healing had been performed was more than forty years old. 
After being released, Peter and John went to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. 
When they heard this, they lifted up their voices with one accord to God and said, “Master, yoʋ are God, who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them. 
It is yoʋ who said through the mouth of yoʋr servant David, ‘Why do the nations rage, and the peoples plot foolish things? 
The kings of the earth stand up, and the rulers are gathered together, against the Lord and against his Anointed.’ 
For indeed both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together against yoʋr holy servant Jesus, whom yoʋ anointed, 
to do whatever yoʋr hand and yoʋr plan had foreordained to take place. 
And now, Lord, take note of their threats and grant it to yoʋr servants to speak yoʋr word with all boldness, 
as yoʋ stretch out yoʋr hand to heal and to perform signs and wonders through the name of yoʋr holy servant Jesus.” 
After they prayed, the place where they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began speaking the word of God with boldness. 
Now the hearts and souls of the multitude of believers were one, and no one was saying that any of their belongings was his own, but everything they owned was held in common. 
With great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. 
There was no one needy among them, for all who owned plots of land or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold. 
They laid the money at the feet of the apostles, and the proceeds were distributed to anyone who had need. 
Joses, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which means “Son of Encouragement”), a Levite and Cypriot by birth, 
also sold a field he owned and then brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
