John.
Chapter 5.
After this came the feast of the Jews, so Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
Now in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate there is a pool, called Bethesda in Hebrew, which has five porticoes. 
In the porticoes were lying a great multitude of disabled people, including the blind, the lame, and the paralyzed, who were waiting for the moving of the water. 
For at times an angel would go down into the pool and stir up the water. The first person who stepped in after the water was stirred up was healed of whatever disease he had. 
One man was there who had been suffering in his disability for thirty-eight years. 
When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had been in that condition for a long time already, he said to him, “Do yoʋ want to be made well?” 
The disabled man answered him, “Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I am going, another goes down before me.” 
Jesus said to him, “Rise, pick up yoʋr mat, and walk.” 
Immediately the man was made well, so he picked up his mat and began to walk. Now that day was a Sabbath. 
So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, “It is the Sabbath; it is not lawful for yoʋ to pick up yoʋr mat.” 
He answered them, “The man who made me well said to me, ‘Pick up yoʋr mat and walk.’ ” 
So they asked him, “Who is the man who said to yoʋ, ‘Pick up yoʋr mat and walk’?” 
But the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had slipped away, since there was a crowd in that place. 
After this Jesus found the man in the temple courts and said to him, “Behold, yoʋ have become well; do not sin anymore, lest something worse happen to yoʋ.” 
Then the man went and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. 
So the Jews began persecuting Jesus and seeking to kill him, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. 
But Jesus responded to them, “My Father is still working even now, and I too am working.” 
So the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God. 
So Jesus responded to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing on his own, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, the Son also does in the same way. 
For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself does. And he will show him greater works than these, so that you will be amazed. 
For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whomever he wishes. 
The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, 
so that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Anyone who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. 
“Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear it will live. 
For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself. 
And he has given the Son authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. 
Do not be amazed at this, because an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will hear his voice 
and come out, those who have done good to a resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to a resurrection of judgment. 
“I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of the Father who sent me. 
“If I testify about myself, my testimony is not valid. 
There is another who testifies about me, and I know that the testimony he gives about me is true. 
You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth. 
Now I do not receive testimony from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. 
John was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for an hour in his light. 
But I have testimony greater than John's. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, testify that the Father has sent me. 
And the Father who sent me has himself testified about me. You have neither heard his voice at any time nor seen his form. 
And you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe him whom he sent. 
You search the Scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is these that testify about me, 
yet you are not willing to come to me so that you may have life. 
I do not receive glory from men. 
But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. 
I have come in the name of my Father, and yet you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. 
How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that is from the only God? 
Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. The one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope. 
If you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. 
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?” 
