Acts.
Chapter 9.
Meanwhile Saul, still breathing out threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest 
and asked for letters from him to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any who belonged to the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them to Jerusalem as prisoners. 
As he was going along, he drew near to Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. 
Falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are yoʋ persecuting me?” 
Saul said, “Who are yoʋ, Lord?” The Lord said, “I am Jesus, whom yoʋ are persecuting. 
But rise and enter the city, and yoʋ will be told what yoʋ must do.” 
The men who were traveling with Saul stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one. 
Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were open, he saw no one. So they led him by the hand and brought him to Damascus. 
He went three days without seeing, and neither ate nor drank. 
Now there was a disciple in Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, “Ananias.” He said, “Behold, here I am, Lord.” 
Then the Lord said to him, “Get up and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus named Saul. For behold, he is praying, 
and in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and laying his hand on him so that he might receive his sight.” 
But Ananias answered, “Lord, I have heard from many about how much evil this man has done to yoʋr saints in Jerusalem. 
And here he has authority from the chief priests to arrest all who call upon yoʋr name.” 
But the Lord said to him, “Go, for he is a vessel chosen by me to bring my name before Gentiles, kings, and the sons of Israel. 
I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake.” 
So Ananias went and entered the house. Laying his hands on Saul, he said, “Brother Saul, the Lord, who appeared to yoʋ on the road by which yoʋ came, has sent me so that yoʋ may receive yoʋr sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit.” 
Immediately something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he received his sight. Then he rose and was baptized, 
and after taking some food, he was strengthened. For several days Saul was with the disciples in Damascus. 
Immediately he began preaching in the synagogues that the Christ is the Son of God. 
All who heard it were amazed and said, “Is this not the man who in Jerusalem tried to destroy those who call upon this name, and has he not come here for the purpose of bringing them as prisoners to the chief priests?” 
But Saul grew stronger and kept confounding the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, proving that this man Jesus is the Christ. 
When many days had past, the Jews took counsel together to kill him, 
but their plot became known to Saul. They started watching the gates both day and night so that they might kill him. 
But the disciples took him by night and let him down through a window in the city wall, lowering him in a basket. 
When Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him because they did not believe that he was a disciple. 
Barnabas, however, took him and brought him to the apostles. He related to them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road and that the Lord had spoken to him, and how he had been preaching boldly in Damascus in the name of Jesus. 
So Saul stayed with them and would go into Jerusalem and speak boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
He would also speak and debate with the Hellenists, but they were trying to kill him. 
When the brothers found out about it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus. 
So the churches throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were being strengthened. Continuing in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, they were being multiplied. 
Now as Peter was traveling from place to place, he went down to the saints who dwelt in Lydda. 
There he found a man named Aeneas, who was paralyzed and had been confined to a mat for eight years. 
Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus Christ has now healed yoʋ; rise and roll up yoʋr mat.” Immediately he rose, 
and all who dwelt in Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord. 
Now in Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha (which means “Dorcas”). She was always doing good works and charitable acts. 
In those days she became sick and died, so they washed her body and laid it in an upper room. 
Lydda was near Joppa, so when the disciples heard that Peter was there, they sent for him, urging him not to delay in coming to them. 
So Peter rose and went with them. When he arrived, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood before him, weeping and showing him all the tunics and cloaks that Dorcas had made while she was still with them. 
But Peter sent them all outside, knelt down, and prayed. Turning toward the body, he said, “Tabitha, arise.” Then she opened her eyes, and seeing Peter, she sat up. 
He gave her his hand and raised her up. Then he called in the saints and the widows and presented her alive. 
This became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. 
And Peter remained in Joppa for many days with a tanner named Simon. 
