Luke.
Chapter 7.
When Jesus had finished saying all this in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum. 
There a centurion's servant, who was highly regarded by him, was sick and about to die. 
The centurion heard about Jesus and sent some Jewish elders to him, asking him to come and heal his servant. 
When they came to Jesus, they earnestly pleaded with him, saying, “This man is worthy to have yoʋ do this for him, 
for he loves our nation and built our synagogue for us.” 
So Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to say to him, “Lord, do not trouble yoʋrself, for I am not worthy to have yoʋ enter under my roof; 
therefore I did not even consider myself worthy to come to yoʋ. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed. 
For I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me. I say to this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” 
When Jesus heard this, he was amazed at the centurion. And turning to the crowd that was following him, he said, “I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith.” 
Then the men the centurion had sent returned to the house and found that the servant who had been sick was well. 
Soon afterward Jesus went to a town called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him, along with a large crowd. 
As he drew near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the one and only son of his mother (who was a widow). And a large crowd from the town was with her. 
When the Lord saw her, he was moved with compassion for her and said to her, “Do not weep.” 
Then he came up and touched the bier, and those who were carrying it stood still. He said, “Young man, I say to yoʋ, arise!” 
So the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him back to his mother. 
Then all the people were filled with awe and began glorifying God, saying, “A great prophet has arisen among us,” and, “God has visited his people.” 
This news about Jesus then spread throughout Judea and all the surrounding region. 
John's disciples told him about all these things. 
So John called two of his disciples and sent them to ask Jesus, “Are yoʋ the one who is to come, or should we wait for another?” 
When the men came to him, they said, “John the Baptist has sent us to yoʋ to ask, ‘Are yoʋ the one who is to come, or should we wait for another?’ ” 
Now in that very hour Jesus had healed many people of diseases, afflictions, and evil spirits, and had given sight to many who were blind. 
So Jesus replied to John's disciples, “Go tell John what you have seen and heard: The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are made clean, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the poor have good news preached to them. 
And blessed is anyone who does not take offense at me.” 
When John's messengers had gone away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
What then did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and who live in luxury are in royal palaces. 
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. 
This is the one of whom it is written, ‘Behold, I am sending my messenger ahead of yoʋ, who will prepare yoʋr way before yoʋ.’ 
For I tell you, among those born of women there is no prophet greater than John the Baptist, but whoever is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.” 
(When all the people heard this, including the tax collectors, they acknowledged the justice of God, because they had been baptized with the baptism of John. 
But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the will of God for themselves, because they had not been baptized by John.) 
“To what then should I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like? 
They are like children who sit in the marketplace and call out to one another, ‘We played the flute for you, but you did not dance; we sang a lament for you, but you did not weep.’ 
For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’ 
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Behold, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ 
Yet wisdom is justified by all her children.” 
One of the Pharisees asked Jesus to eat with him, so he went into the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table. 
And behold, a woman in the city who was a sinner, when she found out that Jesus was reclining at the table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster jar of ointment. 
As she stood behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with the hair of her head, kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. 
When the Pharisee who had invited him saw it, he said to himself, “If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is—that she is a sinner.” 
Jesus said to him in response, “Simon, I have something to say to yoʋ.” So he said, “Say it, Teacher.” 
“A certain moneylender had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other owed fifty. 
When they did not have the means to repay, he forgave the debts of them both. So tell me, which of them will love him more?” 
Simon answered, “I suppose that it would be the one for whom he forgave the larger debt.” Jesus said to him, “Yoʋ have judged correctly.” 
Then he turned toward the woman and said to Simon, “Do yoʋ see this woman? When I came into yoʋr house, yoʋ did not give me water for my feet, but this woman has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head. 
Yoʋ did not give me a kiss, but from the time I came in, this woman has not stopped kissing my feet. 
Yoʋ did not anoint my head with oil, but this woman has anointed my feet with ointment. 
Therefore I tell yoʋ, her many sins are forgiven; that is why she has shown great love. But he to whom little is forgiven shows little love.” 
Then Jesus said to her, “Yoʋr sins are forgiven.” 
But those who were reclining at the table with him began to say among themselves, “Who is this man that even forgives sins?” 
And Jesus said to the woman, “Yoʋr faith has saved yoʋ; go in peace.” 
