Acts.
Chapter 21.
After we parted from them and set sail, we followed a straight course and came to Cos. The next day we reached Rhodes, and from there we went to Patara. 
When we found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went on board and set sail. 
After coming in sight of Cyprus, we passed it on the left, sailed to Syria, and arrived at Tyre, for there the ship was to unload its cargo. 
Then we found some disciples and stayed there for seven days. Through the Spirit they kept telling Paul not to go up to Jerusalem, 
but when our days there came to an end, we left and went on our way. All the disciples accompanied us, along with their wives and children, until we were outside of the city. Then we knelt down on the beach and prayed. 
After saying goodbye to one another, we got on board the ship, and they returned to their homes. 
When we completed the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais. After greeting the brothers, we stayed with them for one day. 
The next day Paul and his companions left and went to Caesarea. We entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him. 
(He had four virgin daughters who prophesied.) 
After we had been there for several days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. 
He came to us and took Paul's belt, and binding his own feet and hands, he said, “Thus says the Holy Spirit, ‘In this way the Jews in Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.’ ” 
When we heard this, we and the local residents urged Paul not to go up to Jerusalem. 
But Paul responded, “What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be imprisoned, but even to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.” 
Since he would not be persuaded, we said, “The Lord's will be done,” and then we kept silent. 
After those days we packed up our belongings and went up to Jerusalem. 
Some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, bringing us to a Cypriot man named Mnason, an early disciple, with whom we were to stay. 
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers warmly welcomed us. 
The following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present. 
After greeting them, he reported in detail what God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. 
When they heard this, they began glorifying the Lord. Then they said to him, “Yoʋ see, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are who have become believers, and they are all zealous for the law. 
They have been informed that yoʋ teach all the Jews who live among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk according to our customs. 
What then is to be done? The assembly will surely meet, for they will hear that yoʋ have come. 
So yoʋ must do what we tell yoʋ. There are four men who are under a vow. 
Take these men and purify yoʋrself along with them and pay their expenses, so that they may shave their heads. Then everyone will know that there is no truth to what they have been told about yoʋ, but that yoʋ yoʋrself also walk in an orderly manner, keeping the law. 
But as for the Gentiles who have become believers, we have written a letter with our judgment that they should observe no such thing, except that they should keep themselves from what has been sacrificed to idols, from blood, from what has been strangled, and from fornication.” 
Then Paul took the men, and on the next day he purified himself with them and went to the temple, giving notice of when the days of their purification would be completed and the offering would be presented for each of them. 
When the seven days were about to be completed, the Jews from Asia saw Paul in the temple courts and began stirring up the entire crowd. They seized him, 
crying out, “Men of Israel, help us! This is the man who teaches everyone everywhere against our people, our law, and this place. Furthermore, he has even brought Greeks into the inner courts of the temple and has defiled this holy place.” 
(For they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with Paul, and they assumed that Paul had brought him into the inner courts of the temple.) 
Then the entire city was in an uproar, and the people rushed together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple courts, and the gates were immediately shut. 
But as they were trying to kill him, a report went up to the commander of the Roman cohort that all Jerusalem was in an uproar. 
At once he took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. When the mob saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul. 
Then the commander came up, took him into custody, and commanded him to be bound with two chains. He then asked who he was and what he had done. 
But some in the crowd were shouting one thing, and some were shouting another, and since the commander could not find out any reliable information because of the uproar, he ordered Paul to be taken away to the barracks. 
When Paul reached the steps, he had to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd. 
For the mob of people was following behind, crying out, “Away with him.” 
As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the commander, “Do I have permission to speak to yoʋ?” The commander said, “Yoʋ know how to speak Greek? 
Then yoʋ are not the Egyptian who before these days incited a revolt and led four thousand men of the Assassins out into the wilderness?” 
Paul said, “I am a Jewish man from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of an important city. Now I beg yoʋ, let me speak to the people.” 
When the commander gave him permission, Paul stood on the steps and motioned with his hand to the people. When there was a great hush, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, 
