The Second Letter of Peter.
Chapter 1.
Simeon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a faith as precious as ours through the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ: 
Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. 
His divine power has given us everything we need for life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by glory and virtue. 
Through these he has given us his precious and magnificent promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of evil desires. 
For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, your virtue with knowledge, 
your knowledge with self-control, your self-control with endurance, your endurance with godliness, 
your godliness with brotherly affection, and your brotherly affection with love. 
For if you possess these qualities and continue to grow in them, they will keep you from being ineffective and unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten the cleansing of his former sins. 
Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm that you are among those whom God has called and chosen, because if you do these things, you will never stumble. 
For in this way, entry into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly provided for you. 
Therefore, I will not neglect to keep reminding you about these things, though you know them and are established in the truth you now have. 
I think it is right, as long as I am in this bodily tent, to stir you up by way of reminder, 
because I know that this tent will soon be laid aside, as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me. 
And I will make every effort to ensure that after my departure you will be able to recall these things at any time. 
For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 
For he received honor and glory from God the Father when that voice came to him from the Majestic Glory: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” 
We ourselves heard this voice come from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. 
So we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed. You will do well to pay attention to it, as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. 
First of all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation. 
For no prophecy ever came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. 
