Acts.
Chapter 3.
One day Peter and John were going up together to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour. 
And a man who was lame from his mother's womb was being carried in. Every day people would lay him at the gate of the temple called the Beautiful Gate so that he could ask for alms from those who were entering the temple courts. 
When he saw Peter and John about to enter the temple courts, he began asking for alms. 
But Peter, along with John, looked at him intently and said, “Look at us.” 
So the man gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them. 
But Peter said, “I have no silver or gold, but what I do have I give to yoʋ. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk.” 
Then Peter took hold of him by the right hand and raised him up, and at once his feet and ankles were strengthened. 
Leaping up, he stood and began walking. Then he entered the temple courts with them, walking and leaping and praising God. 
When all the people saw him walking and praising God, 
they recognized him as the man who used to sit at the Beautiful Gate of the temple asking for alms. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. 
As the lame man who had been healed clung to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them at the portico called Solomon's, utterly astonished. 
When Peter saw this, he addressed the people: “Men of Israel, why are you amazed at this, or why are you staring at us as though by our own power or godliness we have made this man walk? 
The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, even though Pilate had decided to release him. 
Yes, you denied the Holy and Righteous One and asked for a murderer to be granted to you. 
You put to death the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses. 
By faith in his name, his name has strengthened this man whom you see and know, and the faith that is through Jesus has given him this perfect health in the presence of you all. 
“Now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did your rulers also. 
But in this way God fulfilled what he had foretold through the mouths of all his prophets, that the Christ would suffer. 
Therefore repent and turn back so that your sins may be wiped away, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, 
and that he may send Jesus, the Christ who has been appointed for you. 
Heaven must receive him until the time comes for the restoration of all things, which God declared by the mouth of all his holy prophets long ago. 
For Moses said to our fathers, ‘The Lord our God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your brothers. You must listen to everything he tells you. 
Every soul who does not listen to that prophet will be utterly destroyed from among the people.’ 
Indeed, all the prophets who have spoken, beginning with Samuel and continuing with those who came afterward, also proclaimed these days. 
You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with our fathers when he said to Abraham, ‘In yoʋr offspring all the families of the earth will be blessed.’ 
God raised up his servant Jesus and sent him first to you, to bless you by turning each of you from your evil ways.” 
