The Gospel According to John.
Chapter 1.
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 
He was in the beginning with God. 
All things were made through him, and none of the things that were made were made without him. 
In him was life, and the life was the light of men. 
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. 
There came a man sent from God, whose name was John. 
He came as a witness to testify about the light, so that all might believe through him. 
He himself was not the light, but he came to testify about the light. 
The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. 
He was in the world, and the world was made through him, but the world did not know him. 
He came to his own, but his own people did not receive him. 
But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, 
who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 
The Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only Son, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. 
John testified about him and cried out, “This is he of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me ranks ahead of me, because he existed before me.’ ” 
Of his fullness we have all received, even grace upon grace. 
For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 
No one has ever seen God, but the one and only Son, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. 
This was the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are yoʋ?” 
He did not deny it, but confessed, “I am not the Christ.” 
So they asked him, “What then? Are yoʋ Elijah?” He said, “I am not.” “Are yoʋ the Prophet?” He answered, “No.” 
So they said to him, “Who are yoʋ? Tell us so that we may give an answer to those who sent us. What do yoʋ say about yoʋrself?” 
He said, “I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’ as the prophet Isaiah said.” 
(Now those who had been sent were from the Pharisees.) 
Then they asked him, “Why then do yoʋ baptize if yoʋ are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?” 
John answered them, “I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know. 
He is the one who comes after me, who ranks ahead of me, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie.” 
These things took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
On the next day John saw Jesus coming to him and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! 
This is he of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who ranks ahead of me, because he existed before me.’ 
I myself did not know him, but I came baptizing with water so that he might be revealed to Israel.” 
Then John testified, “I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it remained upon him. 
I myself did not recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, ‘He upon whom yoʋ see the Spirit descend and remain is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.’ 
And I have seen and testified that this is the Son of God.” 
On the next day John was again standing with two of his disciples. 
As Jesus walked by, John looked at him and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God.” 
When the two disciples heard him say this, they followed Jesus. 
Turning around, Jesus saw them following him and said to them, “What do you seek?” They said to him, “Rabbi” (which means “Teacher”), “where are yoʋ staying?” 
He said to them, “Come and see.” So they went and saw where he was staying, and stayed with him that day; it was about the tenth hour. 
Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two who heard this from John and followed Jesus. 
Andrew first found his own brother Simon and said to him, “We have found the Messiah” (which means “Christ”), 
and he brought Simon to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, “Yoʋ are Simon the son of Jonah; yoʋ shall be called Cephas” (which means “Peter”). 
On the next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. Finding Philip, he said to him, “Follow me.” 
(Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.) 
Philip then found Nathanael and said to him, “We have found him of whom Moses wrote in the law, and of whom the Prophets also wrote—Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.” 
Nathanael said to him, “Can anything good come from Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “Come and see.” 
When Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him, he said of him, “Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit.” 
Nathanael said to him, “How do yoʋ know me?” Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called yoʋ, when yoʋ were under the fig tree, I saw yoʋ.” 
Nathanael answered him, “Rabbi, yoʋ are the Son of God! Yoʋ are the king of Israel!” 
Jesus answered him, “Do yoʋ believe because I said to yoʋ, ‘I saw yoʋ under the fig tree’? Yoʋ will see greater things than these.” 
Then he said to him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, before long you will see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.” 
