James.
Chapter 3.
Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. 
For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to bridle his entire body as well. 
Behold, we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they will obey us, and we guide their entire bodies. 
Or take ships for example, though they are so large and driven by fierce winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the inclination of the pilot directs. 
In the same way, the tongue is a small member, yet it makes great boasts. Consider how great a forest a little fire kindles. 
And the tongue is a fire. The tongue is placed among our members as a world of unrighteousness, staining the entire body, setting the course of life on fire, and itself being set on fire by hell. 
Every species of beast, bird, reptile, and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by man, 
but no man can tame the tongue. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. 
With it we bless God our Father, and with it we curse men, who are made in God's likeness. 
Out of the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, this ought not to be so. 
Does a spring pour out fresh water and bitter water from the same opening? 
Can a fig tree, my brothers, produce olives, or a grapevine figs? In the same way, no spring can produce both salt water and fresh water. 
Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct he should show that his works are done with the gentleness that comes from wisdom. 
But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast or deny the truth. 
This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. 
For where there is jealousy and selfish ambition, there is disorder and every evil practice. 
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easily entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial, and unhypocritical. 
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. 
