Matthew.
Chapter 5.
When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain. And when he sat down, his disciples came to him. 
Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, 
“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. 
Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. 
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled. 
Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy. 
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God. 
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called sons of God. 
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 
Blessed are you when others reproach you, persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. 
Rejoice and be glad, for great is your reward in heaven; for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. 
“You are the salt of the earth, but if salt loses its flavor, with what shall it be seasoned? It is no longer fit for anything but to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. 
“You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, 
nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it shines for all who are in the house. 
Let your light shine before others in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. 
“Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. 
For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not one letter or stroke of a letter will by any means pass from the law until all is accomplished. 
Therefore whoever does away with one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do likewise will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever does and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. 
For I tell you, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. 
“You have heard that it was said to those of old, ‘Yoʋ shall not murder,’ and, ‘Whoever murders will be subject to judgment.’ 
But I say to you that everyone who is rashly angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. Whoever says to his brother, ‘Yoʋ idiot,’ will be subject to the Sanhedrin. And whoever says, ‘Yoʋ fool,’ will be subject to the fires of hell. 
So if yoʋ are offering yoʋr gift at the altar and there remember that yoʋr brother has something against yoʋ, 
leave yoʋr gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to yoʋr brother, and then come and offer yoʋr gift. 
Make friends with yoʋr adversary quickly while yoʋ are on the way with him, lest yoʋr adversary hand yoʋ over to the judge, and the judge hand yoʋ over to the guard, and yoʋ be thrown into prison. 
Truly I say to yoʋ, yoʋ will certainly not come out of there until yoʋ have paid the last penny. 
“You have heard that it was said, ‘Yoʋ shall not commit adultery.’ 
But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman to lust after her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. 
So if yoʋr right eye causes yoʋ to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away from yoʋ. For it is better for yoʋ to have one of yoʋr members perish, than for yoʋr whole body to be thrown into hell. 
And if yoʋr right hand causes yoʋ to stumble, cut it off and throw it away from yoʋ. For it is better for yoʋ to have one of yoʋr members perish, than for yoʋr whole body to be thrown into hell. 
“It was also said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife must give her a certificate of divorce.’ 
But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, apart from a matter of fornication, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. 
“Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, ‘Yoʋ shall not break an oath, but shall keep yoʋr oaths to the Lord.’ 
But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God; 
nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. 
Neither shall yoʋ swear by yoʋr head, for yoʋ cannot make one hair white or black. 
But let your ‘Yes’ be ‘Yes’ and your ‘No’ be ‘No’; for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. 
“You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.’ 
But I say to you, do not resist one who is evil. Rather, if anyone slaps yoʋ on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. 
If anyone wants to sue yoʋ and take away yoʋr tunic, let him have yoʋr cloak also. 
And if anyone presses yoʋ into service for one mile, go with him two. 
Give to him who asks of yoʋ, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from yoʋ. 
“You have heard that it was said, ‘Yoʋ shall love yoʋr neighbor and hate yoʋr enemy.’ 
But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you, 
so that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. For he makes his sun rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. 
For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? 
And if you greet only your friends, what are you doing that is out of the ordinary? Do not even the tax collectors do that? 
You therefore shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. 
