Acts.
Chapter 24.
Five days later the high priest Ananias came down with the elders and an attorney named Tertullus. They presented their case against Paul to the governor. 
When Paul had been summoned, Tertullus began to present his case before Felix, saying, “Since we have experienced much peace because of yoʋ, and prosperity is coming to this nation by yoʋr foresight, 
both in every way and in every place we acknowledge it, most excellent Felix, with the utmost gratitude. 
But so that I may not detain yoʋ any further, I request that, in yoʋr forbearance, yoʋ would hear us briefly. 
For we have found this man to be a pestilent fellow, an instigator of dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. 
He even tried to desecrate the temple, so we seized him. 
By examining him yoʋrself yoʋ will be able to learn the truth about all these accusations we are making against him.” 
The Jews also joined in the accusation, claiming that these things were so. 
When the governor motioned for him to speak, Paul responded, “Knowing that yoʋ have been a judge over this nation for many years, I all the more cheerfully make my defense concerning these charges against me. 
Yoʋ can ascertain that it has not been more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem. 
Neither in the temple courts, nor in the synagogues, nor anywhere in the city did they find me arguing with anyone or stirring up a crowd. 
Nor can they offer any proof against me concerning the things of which they now accuse me. 
But I confess this to yoʋ, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I serve the God of our fathers, believing everything that is written throughout the Law and in the Prophets, 
having a hope in God, which these men themselves also accept, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the righteous and the unrighteous. 
Because of this I strive the way I do, always having a clear conscience before God and men. 
After being away for many years, I came to bring charitable gifts to my nation along with offerings. 
While I was doing this, some Jews from Asia found me in the temple courts as I was completing the rite of purification, without any crowd or commotion. 
They ought to be here before yoʋ and make an accusation if they have anything against me. 
Or these men themselves should state what wrongdoing they found in me when I stood before the Sanhedrin, 
other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them: ‘It is regarding the resurrection of the dead that I am being tried by you today.’ ” 
After hearing these things, Felix, who knew the facts concerning the Way in great detail, had them adjourn, saying, “When Lysias the commander comes down, I will decide your case.” 
Then he ordered the centurion to keep Paul in custody, but to allow him a certain measure of freedom and not to prevent his own people from attending to his needs or visiting him. 
After several days, when Felix came back with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and listened to him speak about faith in Christ. 
But as Paul was discussing righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix became frightened and said in response, “Go away for now, and when I get an opportunity I will call for yoʋ.” 
At the same time he was hoping that Paul would give him money, so that he might release him. So he would send for Paul quite often and converse with him. 
But after two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus. And wishing to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in prison. 
