John.
Chapter 10.
“Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the gate but climbs in by another way is a thief and a robber. 
But he who enters by the gate is the shepherd of the sheep. 
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. 
When he has brought out his own sheep, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice. 
They will certainly not follow a stranger, but will flee from him because they do not recognize the voice of strangers.” 
Jesus spoke to them with this figure of speech, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. 
So Jesus said to them again, “Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the gate for the sheep. 
All who came before are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. 
I am the gate; if anyone enters through me, he will be saved and will come in and go out and find pasture. 
The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy. I have come that they may have life, and have it abundantly. 
I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 
But the hired hand is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep. So when he sees the wolf coming, he leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches the sheep and scatters them. 
The hired hand flees, for he is a hired hand and does not care about the sheep. 
I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep and my sheep know me, 
even as the Father knows me and I know the Father. I lay down my life for the sheep. 
I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice. And there will be one flock, one shepherd. 
This is why the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so that I may take it up again. 
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. I received this commandment from my Father.” 
At these words there was again a division among the Jews. 
Many of them were saying, “He has a demon and is out of his mind; why do you listen to him?” 
Others were saying, “These are not the words of a man possessed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?” 
Now it was the Feast of the Dedication in Jerusalem. It was winter, 
and Jesus was walking in the temple courts, in Solomon's Portico. 
So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, “How long are yoʋ going to keep us in suspense? If yoʋ are the Christ, tell us plainly.” 
Jesus answered them, “I did tell you, but you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name testify about me, 
but you do not believe because you are not among my sheep, just as I told you. 
My sheep hear my voice; I know them, and they follow me. 
I give them eternal life, and they will certainly never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. 
I and the Father are one.” 
Then the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. 
In response Jesus said to them, “I have shown you many good works from my Father; for which of these works are you going to stone me?” 
The Jews answered him, “We are not going to stone yoʋ for a good work, but for blasphemy, and because yoʋ, being a man, make yoʋrself out to be God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Is it not written in your law, ‘I said, you are gods’? 
If he called them ‘gods,’ to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture cannot be broken), 
do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, ‘Yoʋ are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’? 
If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me. 
But if I do them, even if you do not believe me, believe the works, so that you may know and believe that the Father is in me and I in him.” 
Again they sought to arrest him, but he eluded their grasp. 
Then Jesus went away again to the other side of the Jordan, to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and he stayed there. 
Many came to him and were saying, “John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true.” 
And many of the people there believed in him. 
