Matthew.
Chapter 26.
When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, 
“You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified.” 
Then the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders of the people were gathered together in the courtyard of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas, 
and they plotted together to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. 
But they said, “Not during the feast, lest there be a riot among the people.” 
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, 
a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive ointment, and she poured it out on his head as he reclined at the table. 
When his disciples saw it, they were indignant and said, “For what purpose is this waste? 
This ointment could have been sold for a large sum, and the money could have been given to the poor.” 
Aware of this, Jesus said to them, “Why are you causing trouble for this woman? For she has done a good deed to me. 
You always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me. 
She has put this ointment on my body to prepare me for burial. 
Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of as a memorial to her.” 
Then one of the twelve, the one called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests 
and said, “What are you willing to give me if I deliver him up to you?” So they set out for him thirty pieces of silver. 
And from then on he was looking for an opportunity to betray Jesus. 
On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus and said to him, “Where do yoʋ want us to make preparations for yoʋ to eat the Passover?” 
He said, “Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, ‘The Teacher says, “My time is near. I am going to keep the Passover with yoʋ, along with my disciples.” ’ ” 
So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them and prepared the Passover. 
When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the twelve. 
As they were eating, he said, “Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me.” 
Greatly distressed, they began to say to him one after another, “Surely not I, Lord?” 
Jesus answered, “The one who has dipped his hand with me in the dish will betray me. 
The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.” 
Then Judas, who betrayed him, replied, “Surely not I, Rabbi?” Jesus said to him, “Yoʋ have said it yoʋrself.” 
As they were eating, Jesus took the bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, gave it to the disciples, and said, “Take and eat this bread; this is my body.” 
Then he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, “Drink of it, all of you, 
for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many for the remission of sins. 
But I tell you, from this point forward I will certainly not drink again from this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it with you anew in the kingdom of my Father.” 
And after singing a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Then Jesus said to them, “All of you will fall away because of me this night. For it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’ 
But after I have been raised up, I will go ahead of you to Galilee.” 
Peter answered him, “Even if everyone else falls away because of yoʋ, I will never fall away.” 
Jesus said to him, “Truly I say to yoʋ that on this night, before a rooster crows, yoʋ will deny me three times.” 
But Peter said to him, “Even if I must die with yoʋ, I will certainly not deny yoʋ.” And all the disciples said the same thing. 
Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to the disciples, “Sit here while I go over there and pray.” 
And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and distressed. 
Then Jesus said to them, “My soul is very sorrowful, even to the point of death; stay here and keep watch with me.” 
And going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, “My Father, if possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as yoʋ will.” 
Then he came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “So you could not keep watch with me for one hour? 
Keep watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
Again, he went away for a second time and prayed, “My Father, if this cup cannot pass from me unless I drink it, may yoʋr will be done.” 
Then he came and found them sleeping again, for their eyes were heavy. 
So he left them and went away again and prayed for a third time, saying the same thing. 
Then he came to his disciples and said to them, “Sleep on now and take your rest! Behold, the hour has drawn near, and the Son of Man is delivered up into the hands of sinners. 
Rise, let us go. Behold, my betrayer has drawn near.” 
While he was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came. With him was a large crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and elders of the people. 
Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I kiss, he is the one; arrest him.” 
Immediately he went up to Jesus and said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” And he kissed him. 
Jesus said to him, “Friend, for what purpose have yoʋ come?” Then they came forward, took hold of Jesus, and arrested him. 
And behold, one of the men with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword. He struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. 
Then Jesus said to him, “Put yoʋr sword back into its place, for all who take the sword will die by the sword. 
Or do yoʋ think that I cannot call on my Father right now, and he will provide me with more than twelve legions of angels? 
How then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen this way?” 
In that hour Jesus said to the crowds, “Have you come out to arrest me with swords and clubs as you would against a robber? I sat daily with you, teaching in the temple courts, and you did not arrest me. 
But all this has taken place so that the Scriptures of the prophets would be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples left him and fled. 
Now those who had arrested Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. 
But Peter was following him at a distance, coming as far as the courtyard of the high priest. After going inside, he sat with the officers to see the outcome. 
Now the chief priests, the elders, and the whole Sanhedrin were seeking false testimony against Jesus, so that they could put him to death, 
but they did not find any. Even though many false witnesses came forward, they did not find any. 
But at last two false witnesses came forward and declared, “This man said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days.’ ” 
So the high priest stood up and said to him, “Do yoʋ make no answer? What are these men testifying against yoʋ?” 
But Jesus was silent. Then the high priest said to him, “I adjure yoʋ by the living God to tell us if yoʋ are the Christ, the Son of God.” 
Jesus said to him, “Yoʋ have said it yoʋrself. Nevertheless I say to you, from now on you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power and coming on the clouds of heaven.” 
Then the high priest tore his garments and said, “He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, you have now heard his blasphemy. 
What do you think?” They answered, “He deserves death.” 
Then they spit in his face and struck him. Others slapped him, 
saying, “Prophesy to us, yoʋ Christ! Who is it that struck yoʋ?” 
Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him and said, “Yoʋ also were with Jesus the Galilean.” 
But he denied it before them all, saying, “I do not know what yoʋ are talking about!” 
Then he went out to the gateway, and another servant girl saw him and said to those who were there, “This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth.” 
But again he denied it with an oath: “I do not know the man.” 
After a little while, those who were standing there came up and said to Peter, “Truly yoʋ also are one of them, for even yoʋr accent gives yoʋ away.” 
Then he began to invoke curses and to swear: “I do not know the man.” And immediately a rooster crowed. 
Then Peter remembered what Jesus had said to him: “Before a rooster crows, yoʋ will deny me three times.” And he went out and wept bitterly. 
