Luke.
Chapter 16.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “There was a rich man whose steward was accused of squandering his possessions. 
So he called the steward in and said to him, ‘What is this I hear about yoʋ? Give an account of yoʋr stewardship, for yoʋ can no longer be steward.’ 
The steward said to himself, ‘What should I do, since my master is taking my stewardship away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg. 
I know what I will do so that when I am removed from my stewardship people will receive me into their homes.’ 
So he summoned each one of his master's debtors. He said to the first, ‘How much do yoʋ owe my master?’ 
The man said, ‘A hundred measures of oil.’ The steward said to him, ‘Take yoʋr bill, sit down quickly, and write fifty.’ 
Then he said to another, ‘And how much do yoʋ owe?’ The man said, ‘A hundred measures of wheat.’ The steward said to him, ‘Take yoʋr bill and write eighty.’ 
So the master commended the unrighteous steward because he had acted shrewdly. For the sons of this age are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than are the sons of light. 
And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth so that when you die, they will receive you into the eternal dwellings. 
“He who is faithful with very little is also faithful with much, and he who is dishonest with very little is also dishonest with much. 
If then you have not been faithful with unrighteous wealth, who will entrust you with true riches? 
And if you have not been faithful with the property of another, who will give you property of your own? 
No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.” 
Now the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things and began ridiculing Jesus. 
So he said to them, “You justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts. For what is highly esteemed among men is an abomination in the sight of God. 
“The Law and the Prophets were until John; since then the good news of the kingdom of God has been preached, and everyone tries to force his way into it. 
But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one stroke of a letter to be dropped from the law. 
“Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and everyone who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery. 
“Now there was a certain rich man who would dress in purple and fine linen, enjoying himself each day as he lived lavishly. 
There was also a poor man named Lazarus, who was laid at his gate, covered with sores. 
He longed to be filled with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table, but instead the dogs would come and lick his sores. 
Now the poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's side, and the rich man also died and was buried. 
As he was in torment in Hades, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his side. 
So he called out and said, ‘Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame.’ 
But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that in yoʋr lifetime yoʋ received yoʋr good things, and in the same way Lazarus received bad things, but now he is here being comforted, while yoʋ are in agony. 
And besides all this, a great chasm is fixed between you and us, so that those who want to cross over to you from here cannot do so, nor can anyone cross over to us from there.’ 
He said, ‘Then I beg yoʋ, father, to send Lazarus to my father's house, 
for I have five brothers. Let him warn them, so that they too will not come to this place of torment.’ 
Abraham said to him, ‘They have Moses and the Prophets; they can listen to them.’ 
He said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.’ 
But Abraham said to him, ‘If they do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded even if someone rises from the dead.’ ” 
