Luke.
Chapter 19.
Then Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through. 
And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector, who was rich. 
He was trying to see who Jesus was, but he could not do so because of the crowd, for he was small in stature. 
So he ran on ahead and climbed a sycamore tree so that he could see him, because Jesus was about to pass by that way. 
When Jesus came to that place, he looked up and saw him. Then he said to him, “Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at yoʋr house today.” 
So he hurried down and received Jesus with joy. 
When all the people saw it, they grumbled, saying, “He has gone in to stay with a sinful man.” 
But Zacchaeus stood there and said to the Lord, “Behold, half of my goods, Lord, I give to the poor, and if I have extorted anything from anyone, I will pay back four times the amount.” 
Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, for this man also is a son of Abraham. 
For the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost.” 
Now as the people were listening to this, Jesus went on to tell a parable, because he was near Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God was going to appear at once. 
So he said, “A man of noble birth went to a distant country to receive a kingdom for himself and then return. 
Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas and said to them, ‘Engage in business until I come.’ 
Now his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We do not want this man to reign over us.’ 
When he returned after receiving the kingdom, he summoned the servants to whom he had given the money, so that he might know who had gained what by engaging in business. 
The first came before him and said, ‘Master, yoʋr mina has made ten minas more.’ 
The king said to him, ‘Well done, good servant! Because yoʋ have been faithful in a very small matter, take authority over ten cities.’ 
The second came and said, ‘Master, yoʋr mina has made five minas.’ 
The king said to him, ‘Yoʋ are to be over five cities.’ 
Another came and said, ‘Master, behold, here is yoʋr mina, which I kept put away in a piece of cloth. 
For I was afraid of yoʋ, because yoʋ are a stern man. Yoʋ take out what yoʋ did not put in, and yoʋ reap what yoʋ did not sow.’ 
The king said to him, ‘I will condemn yoʋ by the words coming out of yoʋr own mouth, yoʋ evil servant. Yoʋ knew, did yoʋ, that I was a stern man, taking out what I did not put in, and reaping what I did not sow? 
Why then did yoʋ not deposit my money in the bank, and when I came I would have collected it with interest?’ 
Then he said to those standing nearby, ‘Take the mina from him and give it to the one who has ten minas.’ 
(But they said to him, ‘Master, he has ten minas!’) 
‘For I tell you that everyone who has will be given more, but the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him. 
But as for those enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them in front of me.’ ” 
After saying these things, Jesus continued on his way up to Jerusalem, walking ahead of his disciples. 
As he drew near to Bethsphage and Bethany, at the mount called Olivet, he sent two of his disciples ahead, 
saying, “Go into the village ahead of you. As you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it here. 
If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ tell him this: ‘The Lord has need of it.’ ” 
So those who were sent went off and found it just as he had told them. 
As they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying the colt?” 
They said, “The Lord has need of it.” 
Then they brought the colt to Jesus, threw their garments over it, and set Jesus on it. 
As he went along, people were spreading their garments on the road. 
And as he drew near to the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to praise God joyfully with a loud voice for all the miracles they had seen, 
saying, “Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest!” 
But some of the Pharisees from among the crowd said to Jesus, “Teacher, rebuke yoʋr disciples.” 
In response he said to them, “I tell you, if they keep silent, the stones will cry out.” 
As he drew near to Jerusalem and saw the city, he wept over it, 
saying, “If only yoʋ had known, especially on this yoʋr day, what would bring about yoʋr peace! But now it is hidden from yoʋr eyes. 
For the days will come upon yoʋ when yoʋr enemies build a barricade around yoʋ and encircle yoʋ, hemming yoʋ in on every side. 
They will raze yoʋ to the ground, and yoʋr children within yoʋ. They will not leave in yoʋ one stone upon another, because yoʋ did not recognize the time of yoʋr visitation.” 
Then Jesus entered the temple courts and began driving out those who were selling and buying there. 
He said to them, “It is written, ‘My house is a house of prayer,’ but you have made it a den of robbers.” 
Every day Jesus was teaching in the temple courts, but the chief priests and the scribes were seeking to destroy him, and so were the prominent leaders among the people. 
But they could not figure out what to do, for all the people were hanging on his every word as they listened to him. 
