Romans.
Chapter 10.
Brothers, the desire of my heart and my prayer to God is that Israel may be saved. 
I can testify that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. 
For they do not understand the righteousness of God, and by seeking to establish their own righteousness, they have not submitted to God's righteousness. 
For Christ is the end of the law so that there may be righteousness for everyone who believes. 
Moses writes about the righteousness that is by the law: “The person who does these things will live by them.” 
But the righteousness that is by faith speaks like this: “Do not say in yoʋr heart, ‘Who will go up to heaven?’ ” (that is, to bring Christ down) 
“or, ‘Who will go down into the abyss?’ ” (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead). 
But what does it say? “The word is near yoʋ, in yoʋr mouth and in yoʋr heart” (that is, the word of faith that we preach), 
because if yoʋ confess with yoʋr mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe with yoʋr heart that God raised him from the dead, yoʋ will be saved. 
For with the heart belief is exercised, resulting in righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made, resulting in salvation. 
As the Scripture says, “No one who believes in him will be put to shame.” 
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; the same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call upon him. 
For “everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved.” 
How then will they call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without someone preaching? 
And how will they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who preach good news of good things!” 
But not all the Israelites have obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our report?” 
So then, faith comes by hearing, and hearing comes through the word of God. 
But I ask, have they not heard? On the contrary, “The message has gone out into all the earth, and the words to the ends of the world.” 
Again I ask, did Israel not understand? First Moses says, “I will provoke you to jealousy by that which is not a nation; by a nation that has no understanding I will provoke you to anger.” 
And Isaiah is even bold enough to say, “I was found by those who were not seeking me; I became known to those who were not asking for me.” 
But to Israel he says, “All day long I have stretched out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people.” 
