2 Corinthians.
Chapter 9.
There is no need for me to write to you about this ministry of giving to the saints in Jerusalem. 
For I know how eager you are to help, and I keep boasting about you to the Macedonians, saying that Achaia has been prepared to give since last year; and your zeal has stirred up most of them. 
But I have sent the brothers so that our boasting about you in this matter may not prove to be empty, but that you may be prepared, just as I said you would be. 
Otherwise, if any of the Macedonians were to come with me and find you unprepared, we (not to mention you) would be ashamed of this confident boasting. 
So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance your previously announced blessing, so that this gift of yours may be ready as a blessing and not as something you feel forced to do. 
My point is this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. 
Each person should give as he decides in his heart, not with sadness or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. 
And God is able to provide you with every blessing in abundance so that you will always have everything you need to abound in every good work. 
As it is written, “He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever.” 
Now may he who provides seed to the sower, and bread for food, also multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness! 
May you be enriched in every way to be generous on every occasion, and through us may your generosity produce thanksgiving to God! 
For this ministry of giving is not only providing for the needs of the saints in Jerusalem but is also abounding through many thanksgivings to God. 
By their approval of this ministry, the saints in Jerusalem will glorify God because of your submission to the gospel of Christ that you confess, and also because of your generous contribution to them and to all. 
They will pray for you with deep affection because of the surpassing grace of God that is upon you. 
Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift! 
