John.
Chapter 16.
“I have said these things to you so that you will not fall away. 
They will put you out of the synagogues; indeed, an hour is coming when anyone who kills you will think that he is offering service to God. 
They will do these things because they have not known the Father or me. 
But I have said these things to you so that when the hour comes you will remember that I said them to you. I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you. 
“But now I am going to him who sent me, yet none of you asks me, ‘Where are yoʋ going?’ 
Rather, sorrow has filled your hearts because I have said these things to you. 
But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you. But if I do go, I will send him to you. 
And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment: 
concerning sin, because they do not believe in me; 
concerning righteousness, because I am going to my Father, and you will no longer see me; 
and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been condemned. 
“I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. 
When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you what is to come. 
He will glorify me, for he will receive from me what is mine and declare it to you. 
All that the Father has is mine. That is why I said that he will receive from me what is mine and declare it to you. 
“In a little while you will not see me; and again after a little while, you will see me, for I am going to the Father.” 
Then some of his disciples said to one another, “What does he mean by saying to us, ‘In a little while you are not going to see me; and again after a little while, you will see me,’ and, ‘For I am going to the Father’?” 
So they kept saying, “What does he mean by saying, ‘A little while’? We do not know what he is talking about.” 
Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, “Are you asking one another what I meant when I said, ‘In a little while, you will not see me; and again after a little while, you will see me’? 
Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn to joy. 
When a woman is giving birth, she has pain because her hour has come, but when her baby is born, she no longer remembers the anguish because of her joy that a child has been born into the world. 
So you also have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you. 
In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name he will give you. 
Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be full. 
“I have told you these things in figures of speech, but an hour is coming when I will no longer use figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father. 
In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf, 
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have come to believe that I came from God. 
I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father.” 
His disciples said to him, “Behold, now yoʋ are speaking plainly and not using any figure of speech. 
Now we know that yoʋ know all things and have no need for anyone to question yoʋ; because of this we believe that yoʋ came from God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Now do you believe? 
Behold, an hour is coming, and has now come, when you will be scattered, each to yoʋr own home, and will leave me all alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. 
I have said these things to you so that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take heart; I have overcome the world.” 
