John.
Chapter 18.
After saying these things, Jesus went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley, where there was a garden, which he entered along with his disciples. 
Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples. 
So Judas took a cohort of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, and they went there with lanterns, torches, and weapons. 
Then Jesus, knowing everything that would happen to him, went out and said to them, “Whom do you seek?” 
They answered him, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.” (Judas, who betrayed him, was also standing with them.) 
When Jesus said to them, “I am he,” they drew back and fell to the ground. 
So again he asked them, “Whom do you seek?” They said, “Jesus of Nazareth.” 
Jesus answered, “I told you that I am he. So if you are seeking me, let these men go.” 
He said this to fulfill the word he had spoken: “I have not lost a single one of those yoʋ have given me.” 
Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it, struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. (The servant's name was Malchus.) 
But Jesus said to Peter, “Put yoʋr sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?” 
Then the cohort of soldiers, along with its commander and the Jewish officers, arrested Jesus, bound him, 
and led him away first to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. 
(It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it was better for one man to perish for the people.) 
Now Simon Peter was following Jesus, as was the other disciple. That disciple was known to the high priest, so he went with Jesus into the high priest's courtyard, 
but Peter stood outside at the gate. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out, spoke to the gatekeeper, and brought Peter in. 
Then the servant girl who was the gatekeeper said to Peter, “Yoʋ are not also one of this man's disciples, are yoʋ?” He said, “I am not.” 
(Now the servants and the officers had made a charcoal fire, because it was cold, and they were standing there warming themselves. Peter was also standing with them, warming himself.) 
Meanwhile, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. 
Jesus answered him, “I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogues and in the temple courts, where the Jews always assemble together. I have said nothing in secret. 
Why do yoʋ question me? Question those who heard what I said to them. Behold, they know what I said.” 
When Jesus said this, one of the officers standing nearby slapped him and said, “Is that how yoʋ answer the high priest?” 
Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken wrongly, testify as to what was wrong; but if I have spoken well, why are yoʋ hitting me?” 
Then Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. 
Meanwhile, Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, “Yoʋ are not also one of his disciples, are yoʋ?” He denied it and said, “I am not.” 
But one of the servants of the high priest, who was a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, said, “Did I not see yoʋ with him in the garden?” 
Peter denied it again, and immediately a rooster crowed. 
Then the Jews led Jesus away from Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was now early in the morning. They themselves did not go into the governor's headquarters so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. 
So Pilate went out to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?” 
They answered him, “If he were not an evildoer, we would not have handed him over to yoʋ.” 
Pilate said to them, “You take him and judge him according to your own law.” The Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death.” 
(This happened to fulfill what Jesus had said when he indicated the kind of death he was going to die.) 
Then Pilate went into his headquarters again, called Jesus over, and said to him, “Are yoʋ the king of the Jews?” 
Jesus answered him, “Do yoʋ say this of yoʋr own accord, or have others spoken to yoʋ about me?” 
Pilate answered, “Am I a Jew? Yoʋr own nation and the chief priests have handed yoʋ over to me. What have yoʋ done?” 
Jesus answered, “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would be fighting to keep me from being delivered up to the Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not from here.” 
Pilate said to him, “So yoʋ are a king?” Jesus answered, “Yoʋ have said yoʋrself that I am a king. The reason I was born and the reason I came into the world is to testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.” 
Pilate said to him, “What is truth?” After he said this, he again went out to the Jews and said to them, “I find no fault in him. 
But you have a custom that I release for you one man at the Passover. So do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews?” 
They all cried out again, “Not this man, but Barabbas!” (Now Barabbas was an insurrectionist.) 
