The Second Letter of Paul to the Corinthians.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the church of God in Corinth, together with all the saints throughout Achaia: 
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, 
who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we can comfort those experiencing any kind of affliction with the comfort we ourselves have received from God. 
For just as we share abundantly in the sufferings of Christ, so also our comfort abounds through Christ. 
If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation, which helps you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. And our hope for you is steadfast. If we are comforted, it is also for your comfort and salvation, 
because we know that just as you share in our sufferings, so also you share in our comfort. 
We do not want you to be unaware, brothers, of the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself. 
Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But this happened so that we would not rely on ourselves, but on God, who raises the dead. 
He rescued us from such a terrible death, and continues to rescue us. We have put our hope in him that he will rescue us yet again 
as you join in helping us by your prayers. Then many will give thanks on your behalf for the favor granted to us through the prayers of many. 
Now this is the reason for our confidence: Our conscience testifies that we have conducted ourselves in the world, and especially toward you, with integrity and godly sincerity, not by worldly wisdom, but by the grace of God. 
For we are not writing anything to you other than what you can read and understand. And I hope that you will understand completely— 
just as you have understood us in part—that on the day of the Lord Jesus you will be proud of us just as we will be proud of you. 
Because I was confident of this, I intended to come to you first, so that you would be blessed by a second visit. 
I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedonia and return to you from Macedonia, and then have you send me on my way to Judea. 
Was I vacillating when I planned to do this? Or do I make my plans in a worldly manner, ready to say “Yes” and “No” at the same time? 
But as surely as God is faithful, our message to you did not waver between “Yes” and “No.” 
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, whom Silvanus, Timothy, and I preached among you, did not waver between “Yes” and “No.” On the contrary, in him God's answer has always been “Yes.” 
For in him every one of God's promises is “Yes,” and in him we say “Amen” to the glory of God. 
Now it is God who establishes us with you in Christ and who anointed us. 
He has also sealed us and put his Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. 
But I call upon God as a witness against me, that the reason I did not return to Corinth was to spare you. 
Not that we rule over your faith; rather, we work with you for your joy, because by faith you stand firm. 
