Luke.
Chapter 12.
Meanwhile, when the crowd had gathered together by the thousands, so that they were trampling on one another, Jesus began to speak first to his disciples: “Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 
There is nothing covered up that will not be revealed, and nothing hidden that will not be made known. 
Therefore whatever you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in anyone's ear in private rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops. 
“I tell you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more they can do. 
But I will tell you whom you should fear: Fear him who has authority to throw you into hell after your body has been killed. Yes, I tell you, fear him! 
Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? Yet not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God. 
Indeed, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. So do not be afraid; you are of more value than many sparrows. 
“I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man will also acknowledge before the angels of God, 
but whoever denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. 
And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. 
When you are brought before synagogues, rulers, and authorities, do not be anxious about how or what you should speak in your own defense, or what you should say, 
for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you should say.” 
Then someone from among the crowd said to him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the family inheritance with me.” 
But Jesus said to him, “Man, who appointed me as a judge or arbitrator over you?” 
Then he said to them, “Watch out and be on your guard against covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.” 
And he told them a parable: “The land of a certain rich man produced abundantly. 
So he thought to himself, ‘What should I do, for I do not have anywhere to store my crops?’ 
Then he said, ‘This is what I will do: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my produce and my goods. 
And I will say to my soul, “Soul, yoʋ have many goods laid up for many years; relax, eat, drink, and be merry.” ’ 
But God said to him, ‘Yoʋ fool! This very night yoʋr life will be demanded back from yoʋ, and the things yoʋ have prepared, whose will they be?’ 
This is how it will be with anyone who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.” 
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, or about your body, what you will wear. 
Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. 
Consider the ravens: They do not sow or reap; they have no storehouse or barn, yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than birds? 
Which of you by being anxious can add a single moment to yoʋr span of life? 
If then you cannot even do a very little thing like that, why are you anxious about the rest? 
Consider the lilies, how they grow: They do not toil or spin, yet I tell you, not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed like one of these. 
Now if God so clothes the grass in the field, which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? 
And do not be concerned about what you will eat or what you will drink; do not be anxious about such things. 
For the nations of the world seek after all these things, and your Father knows that you need them. 
Rather, seek the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. 
Do not be afraid, little flock, for your Father is pleased to give you the kingdom. 
Sell your possessions and give to the needy. Make yourselves moneybags that do not wear out, an inexhaustible treasure in heaven, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys. 
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
“Be dressed for service and keep your lamps burning, 
like men who are waiting for their master to return from a wedding feast, so that they may immediately open the door for him when he comes and knocks. 
Blessed are those servants whom their master finds keeping watch when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them recline at the table, and he will come and serve them. 
If he comes in the second watch or the third watch and finds them doing so, blessed are those servants. 
But know this: If the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into. 
Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not expect him.” 
Then Peter said to him, “Lord, are yoʋ telling this parable only for us, or for everyone else as well?” 
The Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time? 
Blessed is that servant whom his master finds so doing when he comes. 
Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. 
But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My master is delayed in coming,’ and he begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk, 
the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not foresee, and will cut him in two and assign his portion to be with the unfaithful. 
That servant who knew his master's will, but did not prepare himself or act according to his will, will be beaten with many lashes. 
But the one who did not know his master's will, yet did what deserved a beating, will be beaten with few lashes. From everyone to whom much has been given, much will be required; and from him to whom much has been entrusted, even more will be demanded. 
“I have come to bring fire to the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled! 
But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how consumed I am with it until it is completed! 
Do you think I have come to grant peace on earth? No, I tell you, but division. 
For from now on five in one household will be divided, three against two and two against three. 
Father will be divided against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.” 
Jesus also said to the crowds, “When you see a cloud rising from the west, you immediately say, ‘A rainstorm is coming,’ and that is what happens. 
And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, ‘There will be scorching heat,’ and it happens. 
Hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, so why can you not interpret this present time? 
“Why do you not judge for yourselves what is right? 
As yoʋ are going with yoʋr adversary before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag yoʋ to the judge, and the judge hand yoʋ over to the officer, and the officer throw yoʋ into prison. 
I tell yoʋ, yoʋ will certainly not come out of there until yoʋ have paid the very last cent.” 
