1 Corinthians.
Chapter 16.
Now concerning the collection for the saints, you must do what I have directed the churches of Galatia to do. 
On the first day of every week, each one of you should set something aside, storing up whatever he may be prospered with, so that collections will not need to be taken when I come. 
When I arrive, I will send those whom you approve by letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem. 
If it is advisable for me to go as well, they will accompany me. 
After I pass through Macedonia, I will come to you, for I will be passing through Macedonia, 
and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way wherever I may go. 
But I do not wish to see you now only in passing; rather, I hope to stay with you for some time, if the Lord permits. 
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost, 
for a great and effective door has been opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 
If Timothy comes, see to it that he has nothing to fear while he is with you, for he is doing the work of the Lord, just as I am. 
Therefore let no one despise him. But send him on his way in peace so that he may come to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers. 
Now concerning Apollos our brother, I strongly urged him to come to you with the other brothers, but it was not at all his will to come now. He will come when he has an opportunity. 
Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, be men of courage, and be strong. 
Everything you do should be done in love. 
Brothers, you know that the household of Stephanas is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to serving the saints. I urge you 
to submit to such people and to everyone who joins together in the work and labors with them. 
I rejoice over the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because these men have supplied what was lacking on your part. 
For they have refreshed my spirit as well as yours. So give recognition to such men. 
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you earnestly in the Lord, along with the church that meets in their house. 
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. 
If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Our Lord has come! 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
