Colossians.
Chapter 4.
Masters, treat your slaves with justice and equity, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven. 
Devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. 
At the same time pray for us as well, that God may open a door to us for the word so that we may speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am in chains. 
Pray that I may make it known in the way that I ought to speak. 
Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. 
Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer each person. 
Tychicus will tell you all the news about me. He is our beloved brother, a faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. 
I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that he may know how you are doing and encourage your hearts. 
With him I have sent Onesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will tell you everything that is happening here. 
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and so does Mark the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you have received instructions: if he comes to you, welcome him). 
Jesus who is called Justus also greets you. These men are my only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are of the circumcision, and they have been a comfort to me. 
Epaphras, who is one of you and a servant of Christ, greets you, always striving for you in his prayers, so that you may stand mature and complete in all the will of God. 
For I testify about him that he has much zeal for you and for those in Laodicea and Hierapolis. 
Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, and so does Demas. 
Give my greetings to the brothers in Laodicea, and to Nymphas and the church that meets in his house. 
After this letter has been read among you, have it read in the church of the Laodiceans as well, and see to it that you also read the letter from Laodicea. 
Tell Archippus, “See to it that yoʋ complete the ministry yoʋ have received in the Lord.” 
I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen. 
