Revelation.
Chapter 21.
Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. 
I also saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared like a bride adorned for her husband. 
And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, “Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them. 
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more, and there will no longer be mourning, crying, or pain, for the former things have passed away.” 
Then he who sits on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” And he said to me, “Write this down, for these words are true and trustworthy.” 
He also said to me, “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To him who thirsts I will freely give from the spring of the water of life. 
He who overcomes will inherit these things; I will be his God, and he will be my son. 
But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the sinful, the detestable, the murderers, the fornicators, the sorcerers, the idolaters, and all liars, their portion is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.” 
Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven final plagues came and said to me, “Come, I will show yoʋ the wife, the bride of the Lamb.” 
And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain and showed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. 
The city shone with the glory of God, and its radiance was like a very precious stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. 
It had a great, high wall with twelve gates. Twelve angels were at the gates, and on the gates were written the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel. 
There were three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three gates on the south, and three gates on the west. 
The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
The angel who spoke to me had a golden measuring rod to measure the city, its gates, and its wall. 
The city is laid out as a square; its length is the same as its width. The angel measured the city with the rod and found it to be twelve thousand stadia. (The length, width, and height were all equal, each measuring twelve thousand stadia.) 
Then he measured its wall and found it to be one hundred forty-four cubits according to human measurement, which the angel was using. 
The wall was made of jasper, while the city was pure gold, like clear glass. 
The foundations of the city wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation stone was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, agate; the fourth, emerald; 
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, carnelian; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst. 
The twelve gates were twelve pearls, each one of the gates was made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. 
I did not see a temple in the city, for the Lord God Almighty is its temple, and so is the Lamb. 
The city has no need of sun or moon to shine upon it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb. 
The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring the glory and honor of the nations into the city to present to God. 
Its gates will never be shut at the end of the day, for there will be no night there. 
They will bring the glory and honor of the nations into the city. 
But no unclean thing and nothing that causes an abomination or a lie will ever enter it, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. 
