1 Corinthians.
Chapter 15.
Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel that I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, 
and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the message that I preached to you—unless you believed in vain. 
For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, 
that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, 
and that he appeared to Cephas, and then to the twelve. 
Next he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at once, most of whom are still living, but some have fallen asleep. 
Next he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. 
Last of all, as to one born at the wrong time, he appeared to me as well. 
For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. 
But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God that was with me. 
Whether then it was I or they, this is what we preach, and this is what you have come to believe. 
Now if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how can some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? 
If there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. 
And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is also in vain. 
We are even found to be false witnesses about God, because we have testified against God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if indeed the dead are not raised. 
For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. 
And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins. 
Furthermore, those who have fallen asleep in Christ have also perished. 
If for this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all people most to be pitied. 
But as it is, Christ has been raised from the dead; he has become the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 
For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead has also come through a man. 
For just as all die in Adam, so all will be made alive in Christ. 
But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then, at his coming, those who belong to Christ. 
Then comes the end, when he hands the kingdom over to God the Father, after he has abolished all rule and all authority and power. 
For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. 
The last enemy to be abolished is death. 
For God “has put everything in subjection under his feet.” Now when it says that “everything has been put in subjection,” it is evident that it does not include God himself, who put everything in subjection to Christ. 
Now when everything has been subjected to him, the Son himself will also be subjected to him who subjected everything to him, so that God may be all in all. 
Otherwise, what are people doing when they get baptized for the dead? If the dead are not actually raised, why are people getting baptized for them? 
And why do we put ourselves in danger every hour? 
I die daily! Yes, just as surely as I boast about you in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
If I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus with no more than human hopes, what did it benefit me? If the dead are not raised, “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.” 
Do not be deceived: “Bad company corrupts good morals.” 
Come to your senses, as is right, and stop sinning. For there are some who are ignorant of God. I say this to your shame. 
But someone will say, “How are the dead raised? With what kind of body will they come?” 
Fool! What yoʋ sow does not come to life unless it dies. 
And what yoʋ sow is not the body that will be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. 
But God gives it a body just as he has determined, and he gives to each of the seeds its own body. 
Not all flesh is the same flesh, but there is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for fish, and another for birds. 
There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of heavenly bodies is one kind, and the glory of earthly bodies is another. 
There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory. 
So it is with the resurrection of the dead. The body that is sown is perishable, but it is raised imperishable. 
It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. 
It is sown as a natural body; it is raised as a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. 
And so it is written, “The first man Adam became a living being.” The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 
However, the spiritual body is not first, but the natural body, then the spiritual body. 
The first man was from the earth, made of dust; the second man is the Lord from heaven. 
As was the man made of dust, so are those made of dust; and as is the heavenly man, so are those who are heavenly. 
Just as we have borne the image of the man made of dust, let us also bear the image of the heavenly man. 
Now I tell you, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does what is perishable inherit what is imperishable. 
Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed, 
in an instant, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet call. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. 
For this perishable body must put on imperishability, and this mortal body must put on immortality. 
Now when this perishable body has put on imperishability, and this mortal body has put on immortality, then this saying that is written will be fulfilled: “Death has been swallowed up in victory.” 
“O Death, where is yoʋr sting? O Hades, where is yoʋr victory?” 
Now the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. 
But thanks be to God, who gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
So then, my beloved brothers, be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. 
