Colossians.
Chapter 3.
If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. 
Set your minds on the things above, not the things on earth. 
For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 
When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. 
Put to death therefore whatever belongs to your earthly nature: fornication, impurity, lust, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. 
On account of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience. 
You too once walked in these ways when you lived among them. 
But now you must put them all aside: wrath, anger, malice, slander, and filthy language from your mouth. 
Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old self with its practices 
and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge according to the image of its Creator. 
Here there is no distinction between Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave and free, but Christ is all and in all. 
Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and beloved, put on tenderhearted mercy, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, 
bearing with one another and forgiving one other if any one of you has a complaint against another; just as Christ forgave you, so you also must forgive. 
Above all, put on love, which is the bond of perfection. 
Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace. And be thankful. 
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another with all wisdom as you sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs to the Lord with gratitude in your hearts. 
And whatever you do, in word or in deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to our God and Father through him. 
Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 
Husbands, love your wives, and do not be embittered against them. 
Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. 
Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. 
Slaves, obey your earthly masters in everything. Do not try to please them only when they are watching you, but obey with sincerity of heart, fearing God. 
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord and not for men, 
knowing that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as your reward; for you serve the Lord Christ. 
But he who does wrong will be paid back the wrong that he has done, and there is no partiality. 
