Mark.
Chapter 13.
As Jesus was coming out from the temple courts, one of his disciples said to him, “Teacher, look! What wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!” 
Jesus answered him, “Do yoʋ see these great buildings? There will certainly not be left one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.” 
Later, as Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, across from the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately, 
“Tell us, when will these things happen? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be fulfilled?” 
Jesus began to say to them in response, “See that no one leads you astray. 
For many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and will lead many astray. 
When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be alarmed, for these things must take place, but the end is not yet. 
For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be earthquakes in various places, along with famines and riots. These are the beginning of the labor pains. 
“You must watch out for yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils, and you will be beaten in synagogues. For my sake you will even be set before governors and kings as witnesses to them. 
And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations. 
When they lead you away and hand you over, do not be anxious beforehand about what you should say. Do not give it much thought, but say whatever is given to you in that hour, for it will not be you speaking, but the Holy Spirit. 
Brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child, and children will rise up against their parents and have them put to death. 
You will be hated by all because of my name, but he who endures to the end will be saved. 
“When you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it should not be” (let the reader understand), “then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains. 
He who is on the housetop must not come down into his house or go inside to get anything out of his house. 
And he who is in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. 
Woe to those who are with child and to those who are nursing infants in those days! 
Pray that your flight will not happen in winter. 
For those days will be a time of tribulation unlike any other from the beginning of God's creation until now, and it will never be equaled again. 
If the Lord had not cut those days short, no flesh would be saved. But for the sake of the chosen, whom he has selected, he has cut those days short. 
If anyone says to you at that time, ‘Behold, here is the Christ!’ or, ‘Behold, there he is!’ do not believe him. 
For false christs and false prophets will rise up and perform signs and wonders to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen. 
So you must watch out! Behold, I have told you everything in advance. 
“But in those days, after that time of tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. 
The stars of heaven will be falling, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken. 
Then people will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. 
And he will send his angels and gather together his chosen from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. 
“Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: As soon as its branches become tender and put out leaves, you know that summer is near. 
So also, when you see these things taking place, know that he is near, at the very gates. 
Truly I say to you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have taken place. 
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will certainly not pass away. 
“No one knows about that day or hour, not even the angels in heaven or the Son, but only the Father. 
Be on guard; stay alert and pray! For you do not know when the time is coming. 
It is like a man away on a journey: When he leaves his house and gives authority to his servants, assigning to each one his task, he also commands the doorkeeper to keep watch. 
Therefore keep watch, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming—in the evening, at midnight, when the rooster crows, or in the morning. 
Otherwise, he may come suddenly and find you sleeping. 
What I say to you, I say to everyone: Keep watch!” 
