Matthew.
Chapter 24.
As Jesus came out from the temple courts and was walking away, his disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the temple. 
But Jesus said to them, “You see all these things, do you not? Truly I say to you, there will certainly not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.” 
Later, as Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately and said, “Tell us, when will these things happen? And what will be the sign of yoʋr coming and of the end of the age?” 
Jesus answered them, “See that no one leads you astray. 
For many will come in my name, saying, ‘I am the Christ,’ and they will lead many astray. 
You will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for all these things must take place, but the end is not yet. 
For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be famines, plagues, and earthquakes in various places. 
But all these things are the beginning of the labor pains. 
“Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations because of my name. 
Many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another. 
Many false prophets will rise up and lead many astray. 
Because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold, 
but he who endures to the end will be saved. 
And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed in the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. 
“So when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place” (let the reader understand), 
“then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains. 
He who is on the housetop must not come down to get anything out of his house. 
And he who is in the field must not turn back to get his garments. 
Woe to those who are with child and to those who are nursing infants in those days! 
Pray that your flight will not happen in winter or on a Sabbath. 
For at that time there will be a great tribulation unlike any other from the beginning of the world until now, and it will never be equaled again. 
If those days had not been cut short, no flesh would be saved. But for the sake of the chosen those days will be cut short. 
If anyone says to you at that time, ‘Behold, here is the Christ!’ or, ‘Here he is!’ do not believe him. 
For false christs and false prophets will rise up and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen. 
Behold, I have told you in advance. 
So if they say to you, ‘Behold, he is in the wilderness,’ do not go out, or, ‘Behold, he is in the inner rooms,’ do not believe it. 
For just as lightning comes from the east and shines to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
For where the carcass is, there the vultures will be gathered together. 
“But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. The stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 
Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the heavens, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn when they see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. 
And he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather together his chosen from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other. 
“Now learn this lesson from the fig tree: As soon as its branches become tender and put out leaves, you know that summer is near. 
So also, when you see all these things, know that he is near, at the very gates. 
Truly I say to you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have taken place. 
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will certainly not pass away. 
“No one knows about that day and hour, not even the angels of heaven, but only my Father. 
As were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 
For in the days before the flood, people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day when Noah went into the ark. 
They knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away. So will it be at the coming of the Son of Man. 
Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and one will be left. 
Two women will be grinding grain at the mill; one will be taken and one will be left. 
Therefore keep watch, for you do not know in what hour your Lord is coming. 
But know this: If the master of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and not allowed his house to be broken into. 
Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not expect him. 
“Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time? 
Blessed is that servant whom his master finds so doing when he comes. 
Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. 
But if that evil servant says in his heart, ‘My master is delayed in coming,’ 
and begins to beat his fellow servants and to eat and drink with the drunkards, 
the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not foresee, 
and will cut him in two and assign his portion to be with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
