Luke.
Chapter 3.
In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, and Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and Philip his brother was tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was tetrarch of Abilene, 
during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zechariah in the wilderness. 
He went into all the region around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, 
as it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, “The voice of one crying out in the wilderness, ‘Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight. 
Every valley will be filled, and every mountain and hill will be brought low. The crooked roads will be made straight, and the rough ways will be made smooth. 
And all flesh will see the salvation of God.’ ” 
John said to the crowds that were coming out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? 
Produce fruit consistent with repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father,’ for I tell you that God is able from these stones to raise up children to Abraham. 
Even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.” 
So the crowds asked him, “What then should we do?” 
John answered them, “Whoever has two tunics must share with him who has none, and whoever has food must do likewise.” 
Some tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, “Teacher, what should we do?” 
He said to them, “Collect no more than what you have been authorized to collect.” 
Then some soldiers asked him, “And what should we do?” He said to them, “Do not extort money from anyone by threats or false accusations, and be content with your wages.” 
Now as the people were waiting in expectation and were all questioning in their hearts whether John might be the Christ, 
John answered them all, “I baptize you with water, but one is coming who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie; he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. 
His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire.” 
With these and many other exhortations John preached good news to the people. 
But when John rebuked Herod the tetrarch because of his marriage to Herodias, his brother's wife, and because of all the evils that he had done, 
Herod added this to everything else: He locked up John in prison. 
Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus had also been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, 
and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. Then a voice came from heaven, saying, “Yoʋ are my beloved Son; in yoʋ I am well pleased.” 
Jesus was about thirty years of age when he began his ministry, being the son (so it was thought) of Joseph, the son of Heli, 
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janna, the son of Joseph, 
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai, 
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semei, the son of Joseph, the son of Judah, 
the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, 
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er, 
the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 
the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim, 
the son of Melea, the son of Mainan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, 
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon, 
the son of Amminadab, the son of Ram, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, 
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, 
the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah, 
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, 
the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan, 
the son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. 
