1 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
When any of you have a dispute against another, do yoʋ dare to go to court before the unrighteous and not before the saints? 
Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you not competent to judge trivial cases? 
Do you not know that we will judge angels, not to mention matters of this life? 
If then you have disputes about such matters, do you seat as judges those who have no standing in the church? 
I say this to your shame. Is there not a wise man among you, not even one, who would be able to decide between a man and his brother, 
but one brother goes to court against another, and they do so before unbelievers? 
As it is, to have lawsuits with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? 
But you yourselves wrong, and you yourselves defraud, and you do these things to your own brothers! 
Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived! Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, 
nor the greedy, nor thieves, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. 
And that is what some of you were. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 
“All things are lawful for me,” but not all things are beneficial. “All things are lawful for me,” but I will not be mastered by anything. 
Food is for the stomach and the stomach for food, but God will do away with them both. The body is not meant for fornication but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
Now God raised the Lord and will also raise us up by his power. 
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Certainly not! 
Do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute is one with her in body? For it says, “The two will become one flesh.” 
But he who is joined to the Lord is one with him in spirit. 
Flee fornication. Every other sin that a person commits is outside the body, but he who commits fornication sins against his own body. 
Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own, 
for you were bought with a price. Therefore glorify God with your body and with your spirit, which belong to God. 
