Acts.
Chapter 14.
At Iconium Paul and Barnabas went together into the synagogue of the Jews and spoke in such a way that a great multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed. 
But the Jews who refused to believe stirred up and corrupted the minds of the Gentiles to be against the brothers. 
So Paul and Barnabas spent a long time there, speaking boldly for the Lord, who was testifying to the message of his grace by granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. 
But the population of the city was divided; some were with the Jews, and some were with the apostles. 
And when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews, together with their rulers, to mistreat them and stone them, 
Paul and Barnabas became aware of it and fled for refuge to the Lycaonian cities of Lystra and Derbe and to the surrounding region. 
There they continued to preach the gospel. 
Now there was a man sitting in Lystra who could not use his feet. He had been lame from his mother's womb and had never walked. 
This man listened to Paul as he was speaking. Paul looked at him intently, and when he saw that he had faith to be healed, 
he said with a loud voice, “Stand up on yoʋr feet!” So the man leaped up and began to walk. 
When the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycaonian, “The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men.” 
Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul they called Hermes, since he was the one who took the lead in speaking. 
Then the priest of the shrine of Zeus that was located in front of their city brought bulls and garlands to the city gates, intending to offer sacrifices together with the crowds. 
But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard about it, they tore their clothes and rushed into the crowd, crying out, 
“Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you. We are bringing you good news, telling you to turn from these worthless things to the living God, who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them. 
In past generations he allowed all the nations to go their own way, 
although he did not leave himself without a witness in that he did good by giving you rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.” 
Yet even by saying these things, they barely restrained the crowds from offering sacrifices to them. 
Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium and persuaded the crowds. They stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. 
But when the disciples gathered around him, he rose and entered the city. The next day he went on with Barnabas to Derbe. 
After preaching the gospel in that city and making many disciples, Paul and Barnabas returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch, 
strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and telling them that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. 
And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, with prayer and fasting they entrusted them to the Lord in whom they had come to believe. 
After passing through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia, 
and when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia. 
From there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work they had now completed. 
After they arrived and gathered the church together, they reported all that God had done through them, and how he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles. 
And they stayed there with the disciples for some time. 
