1 Corinthians.
Chapter 11.
Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. 
Now I praise you, brothers, because you remember me in everything and hold fast to the teachings that have been handed down, just as I delivered them to you. 
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. 
Every man who prays or prophesies with his head veiled disgraces his head, 
and every woman who prays or prophesies with her head unveiled disgraces her head, for it is one and the same as having her head shaved. 
If a woman will not veil herself, she should cut off her hair. But if it is disgraceful for a woman to cut off her hair or shave her head, she should wear a veil. 
For a man ought not to have his head veiled, since he is the image and glory of God, but woman is the glory of man. 
For man did not come from woman, but woman from man. 
Neither was man created for the sake of woman, but woman for the sake of man. 
That is why a woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. 
Nevertheless, in the Lord neither is man independent of woman nor woman independent of man. 
For just as woman came from man, so also man is born of woman, but all things come from God. 
Judge for yourselves: Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head unveiled? 
Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair it is a disgrace to him, 
but if a woman has long hair it is her glory? For her long hair is given for a covering. 
But if anyone is inclined to be contentious, we have no such custom, and neither do the churches of God. 
Now in giving the following instructions, I do not praise you, since you come together not for the better, but for the worse. 
For in the first place, I hear that there are divisions among you when you come together as a church, and in some part I believe it. 
For there must be factions among you to show which of you are approved. 
Now when you come together, it is not to eat the Lord's supper. 
For when you eat, some of you eat your own supper without waiting for others. So one person is hungry while another gets drunk. 
What! Do you not have houses for eating and drinking? Or do you despise the church of God and put to shame those who do not have anything? What should I say to you? Should I praise you for this? I do not praise you. 
For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night in which he was betrayed took bread, 
and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, “Take and eat this bread; this is my body, which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me.” 
In the same way, he also took the cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.” 
For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. 
So then, whoever eats this bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in a manner unworthy of the Lord will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 
So a person should examine himself before he eats of the bread and drinks of the cup. 
For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment on himself, since he does not discern the body of the Lord. 
That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a considerable number have fallen asleep. 
If we would evaluate ourselves, we would not be judged. 
But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we will not be condemned with the world. 
So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 
If anyone is hungry, he should eat at home, so that when you come together it will not result in condemnation. I will set the remaining matters in order when I come. 
