Hebrews.
Chapter 2.
Therefore we must pay greater attention to what we have heard, so that we do not drift away. 
For if the message spoken through angels was valid and every transgression and disobedience received a just retribution, 
how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? This salvation was first announced by the Lord, and it was confirmed to us by those who heard him. 
God also bore further witness with signs, wonders, various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will. 
For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, about which we are speaking. 
But in one place someone has testified: “What is man that yoʋ are mindful of him, or the son of man that yoʋ care for him? 
Yoʋ made him a little lower than the angels and crowned him with glory and honor; 
yoʋ put everything in subjection under his feet.” In subjecting everything to him, God left nothing that is not subjected to him. But now we do not yet see everything subjected to him. 
But we do see Jesus, who for a little while was made lower than the angels, now crowned with glory and honor because he suffered death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. 
For in bringing many sons to glory, it was fitting that God, for whom and through whom all things exist, should make the author of their salvation perfect through suffering. 
For he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified all have one Father. That is why Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers, 
saying, “I will declare yoʋr name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing yoʋr praise.” 
And again, “I will put my trust in him.” And again, “Here I am, with the children God has given me.” 
Therefore, since the children all have flesh and blood, Jesus himself took on flesh and blood as well, so that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, 
and free those who all their lives were held in slavery by the fear of death. 
For surely it is not angels that he helps, but the descendants of Abraham. 
Therefore he had to become like his brothers in every way, so that he could be a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, in order to make atonement for the sins of the people. 
Because he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. 
