Revelation.
Chapter 22.
Then the angel showed me a pure river of the water of life, as bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb. 
In the middle of the city street, and on each side of the river, is the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. And the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. 
No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his servants will serve him. 
They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. 
There will be no night there, and they will not need any lamp or the light of the sun, for the Lord God will give them light, and they will reign forever and ever. 
Then the angel said to me, “These words are trustworthy and true. The Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. 
“Behold, I am coming quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.” 
I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me. 
But he said to me, “Do not do that! I am a fellow servant of yoʋrs, and of yoʋr brothers the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.” 
Then he said to me, “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. 
Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy.” 
“Behold, I am coming quickly, and my reward is with me, to repay each person according to their works. 
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.” 
Blessed are those who keep his commandments, so that they may have the right to the tree of life and may enter the city by its gates. 
Outside are the dogs, the sorcerers, the fornicators, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. 
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify to you about these things for the churches. I am the root and offspring of David, the bright morning star.” 
The Spirit and the bride say, “Come.” Let anyone who hears say, “Come.” Let anyone who is thirsty come. And let anyone who wishes to do so take the water of life freely. 
I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone adds to them, may God add to him the plagues that are written in this book. 
If anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, may God take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are written about in this book. 
He who testifies to these things says, “Surely I am coming quickly.” Amen. So shall it be. Come, Lord Jesus! 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all the saints. Amen. 
