Romans.
Chapter 5.
Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
through whom we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we boast in the hope of the glory of God. 
Not only that, but we also boast in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces endurance, 
endurance produces proven character, proven character produces hope, 
and hope does not put to shame, because the love of God has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. 
For when we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. 
Rarely will anyone die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person someone might even dare to die. 
But God demonstrated his own love for us in that, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. 
How much more then, since we have now been justified by his blood, will we be saved from wrath through him! 
For if, while we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son, how much more will we be saved by his life now that we have been reconciled! 
Not only that, but we also boast in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. 
Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death came through sin, in this way death has come to all men, because all have sinned. 
For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not charged to anyone's account when there is no law. 
Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those whose sins were not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one to come. 
But the gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through the trespass of the one man, how much more have the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man Jesus Christ abounded to many! 
And the gift cannot be compared to the result of the one man's sin; for the judgment that arose from one trespass brought condemnation, but the gift that arose from many trespasses brought justification. 
For if, by the trespass of the one man, death reigned through the one man, how much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ! 
So then, just as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. 
For just as many were made sinners through the disobedience of one man, so also many will be made righteous through the obedience of one man. 
Now the law came in so that the trespass might abound. But where sin abounded, grace abounded all the more, 
so that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
