Romans.
Chapter 16.
I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant of the church in Cenchreae, 
and I ask you to receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints and to assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you, for she has been a benefactor of many, including me. 
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, 
who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only do I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. 
Greet also the church that meets in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved friend, who is the firstfruits of Achaia for Christ. 
Greet Mary, who has labored earnestly for us. 
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsfolk and my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, and who were in Christ before me. 
Greet Amplias, my beloved friend in the Lord. 
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved friend. 
Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those of the household of Aristobulus. 
Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord. 
Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who has labored earnestly in the Lord. 
Greet Rufus, who is chosen in the Lord, and greet his mother, who has also been a mother to me. 
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers who are with them. 
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas and all the saints who are with them. 
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you. 
Now I urge you, brothers, to watch out for those who create divisions and obstacles contrary to the teaching that you have learned; avoid them. 
For such people do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly. By smooth talk and fine speech they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting. 
Your obedience has become known to all, so I rejoice over you. But I want you to be wise about what is good and innocent about what is evil. 
The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My fellow worker Timothy and my relatives Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater greet you. 
I, Tertius, who wrote down this letter, greet you in the Lord. 
Gaius, who is host to me and to the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, and so does Quartus, our brother. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen., 
