Acts.
Chapter 6.
In those days, as the disciples increased in number, a complaint arose against the Hebrews on the part of the Hellenists that their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. 
So the twelve called the multitude of the disciples together and said, “It is not proper for us to neglect the word of God to wait on tables. 
Therefore, brothers, look for seven men among you who have a good reputation and are full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we can appoint for this need. 
But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word.” 
This proposal pleased the whole multitude, so they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, together with Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, an Antiochean convert to Judaism. 
They set these men before the apostles, who then prayed and laid their hands on them. 
So the word of God continued to increase, and the number of disciples continued to multiply greatly in Jerusalem, and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. 
Now Stephen, a man full of faith and power, was performing great wonders and signs among the people. 
But some men from the synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), along with some of the Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some men from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and began to argue with Stephen. 
But they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking. 
Then they induced some men to say, “We heard Stephen speaking blasphemous words against Moses and against God.” 
They also stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes. So they came up to Stephen, seized him, and brought him to the Sanhedrin. 
Then they put forward false witnesses who said, “This man does not stop speaking blasphemous words against the holy place and against the law. 
For we heard him saying that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and change the customs that Moses handed down to us.” 
And all who were sitting in the Sanhedrin stared at Stephen intently and saw that his face was like the face of an angel. 
