Luke.
Chapter 17.
Then Jesus said to the disciples, “It is inevitable that stumbling blocks come, but woe to the one through whom they come! 
It would be better for him if a heavy millstone were hung around his neck and he were cast into the sea than for him to cause one of these little ones to stumble. 
Watch yourselves. If yoʋr brother sins against yoʋ, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. 
Even if he sins against yoʋ seven times in a day, and seven times in that day he comes back and says, ‘I repent,’ yoʋ must forgive him.” 
The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith.” 
The Lord said, “If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you. 
“Suppose one of you has a servant plowing the field or tending the sheep. As soon as he comes in from the field would you say, ‘Come and recline at the table’? 
Instead, would yoʋ not say to him, ‘Prepare my supper. Put on yoʋr apron and serve me while I eat and drink; after that yoʋ may eat and drink’? 
Do yoʋ thank that servant because he did what he was commanded? I think not. 
So you also, when you have done everything you were commanded to do, should say, ‘We are unworthy servants; we have only done what we were obligated to do.’ ” 
Now on his way to Jerusalem, Jesus traveled along the border of Samaria and Galilee. 
As he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers who stood at a distance. 
They lifted up their voices, saying, “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!” 
When he saw them, he said to them, “Go show yourselves to the priests.” As they went along, they were cleansed. 
When one of them saw that he had been healed, he came back, glorifying God with a loud voice. 
He then fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. (Now he was a Samaritan.) 
In response Jesus said, “Were not ten cleansed? Where then are the other nine? 
Were there none found who came back to give glory to God except this foreigner?” 
Then he said to the man, “Rise and go on yoʋr way; yoʋr faith has healed yoʋ.” 
At one point Jesus was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God was coming, so he answered them, “The kingdom of God does not come with observable signs, 
nor will people say, ‘Behold, here it is!’ or, ‘Behold, there it is!’ For behold, the kingdom of God is within you.” 
Then he said to the disciples, “The days will come when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, but you will not see it. 
People will say to you, ‘Behold, here he is!’ or, ‘Behold, there he is!’ Do not go off with them or run after them, 
for just as lightning flashes from one part of the sky and shines to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day. 
But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
Just as it was in the days of Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man. 
People were eating and drinking, marrying and being given in marriage, until the day when Noah went into the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all. 
It will be the same as it was in the days of Lot. People were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building. 
But on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained down from heaven and destroyed them all. 
So will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed. 
On that day, he who is on the housetop and whose goods are in the house must not come down to get them. Likewise, he who is in the field must not turn back. 
Remember Lot's wife. 
Whoever seeks to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will preserve it. 
I tell you, on that night two people will be in one bed; one will be taken and the other will be left. 
Two women will be grinding grain together; one will be taken and the other will be left.” 
Then the disciples said to him in response, “Where, Lord?” He said to them, “Where the body is, there the vultures will be gathered together.” 
