Revelation.
Chapter 16.
Then I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, “Go pour out on the earth the seven bowls of the wrath of God.” 
So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth. Then harmful and painful sores came upon the people who had the mark of the beast and who worshiped his image. 
The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it turned into blood, like that of a dead person, and every living creature in the sea died. 
The third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and they became blood. 
And I heard the angel of the waters say, “Yoʋ are just, O Holy One, who is and who was, for yoʋ have brought these judgments. 
For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and yoʋ have given them blood to drink; it is what they deserve.” 
And I heard the altar say, “Yes, Lord God, the Almighty, true and just are yoʋr judgments.” 
The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and the sun was permitted to scorch people with fire. 
People were scorched with intense heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who had authority over these plagues, but they did not repent and give him glory. 
The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and the beast's kingdom was plunged into darkness. People gnawed their tongues in agony 
and blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and sores, but they did not repent of their works. 
The sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up to prepare the way for the kings of the east. 
Then I saw three unclean spirits that looked like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. 
They are demonic spirits performing signs, who go out to the kings of the whole world to assemble them for battle on that great day of God, the Almighty. 
(“Behold, I am coming like a thief! Blessed is he who stays awake and keeps his garments on, so that he will not walk around naked and have people see his shame.”) 
Then they assembled the kings at the place called in Hebrew, Armageddon. 
The seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice came from the throne of the temple of heaven, saying, “It is done!” 
Then there were flashes of lightning, peals of thunder, rumblings, and a great earthquake such as had not occurred since men have been on the earth, so great was the quake. 
The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. God remembered Babylon the great and gave her the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath. 
Every island fled, and no mountain could be found. 
And great hailstones, about the weight of a talent, fell on people from heaven, and they blasphemed God for the plague of the hail, because the plague was so severe. 
