Hebrews.
Chapter 7.
Now this Melchizedek was king of Salem and priest of God Most High. When Abraham was returning from the slaughter of the kings, Melchizedek met him and blessed him, 
and Abraham gave him a tenth of all the spoils. His name means “king of righteousness,” but he is also “king of Salem,” which means, “king of peace.” 
He is without father, without mother, and without genealogy; there is no beginning to his days or end to his life. But resembling the Son of God, he remains a priest forever. 
Consider how great this man must be, that even Abraham the patriarch gave him a tenth of the spoils. 
Now the law commands the sons of Levi who receive the priestly office to collect tithes from the people, that is, their brothers, even though their brothers are also descended from Abraham. 
But Melchizedek, who was not among the descendants of Levi, received a tithe from Abraham. He also blessed Abraham, who had received the promises. 
It is beyond all dispute that the inferior is blessed by the superior. 
In the one case, tithes are received by mortal men, but in the other case, they are received by one who is attested to be living. 
One might even say that Levi himself, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham. 
For Levi was still in the loins of his ancestor Abraham when Melchizedek met him. 
Now if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood (for under this priesthood the people received the law), what further need would there have been for another priest to arise according to the order of Melchizedek rather than the order of Aaron? 
For when the priesthood is changed, the law must also be changed. 
Now he of whom these things are spoken belongs to a different tribe, from which no one has ever served at the altar. 
For it is clear that our Lord arose from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said nothing about priesthood. 
Now this point becomes even more clear when there arises another priest like Melchizedek, 
one who has become a priest, not through a legal requirement concerning physical descent, but through the power of an endless life. 
For God testifies, “Yoʋ are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.” 
The former commandment is set aside because it was weak and ineffective 
(for the law made nothing perfect), and a better hope is introduced, by which we draw near to God. 
And none of this happened without an oath. Aaron's descendants become priests without an oath, 
but Jesus was made a priest with an oath by the one who said to him, “The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, ‘Yoʋ are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.’ ” 
Accordingly, Jesus has become the guarantor of a better covenant. 
Now the former priests were many in number, because they were prevented by death from continuing in office; 
but because Jesus continues forever, he has a permanent priesthood. 
Therefore he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them. 
It was fitting for us to have such a high priest, one who is holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. 
He has no need, like the other high priests, to offer up daily sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. For he did this once for all when he offered up himself. 
For the law appoints as high priests men who have weakness, but the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints the Son, who has been made perfect forever. 
